ALL RIGHT, WELCOME TO THE
TUESDAY MAY 20TH TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES PLEASE FOR BEAUTIFUL
PRINTED AGENDA PROVIDED MANAGER
KELLY, WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL COMMISSIONER LEIGH I'M
HERE COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE
NOTING THAT SECRETARY
HAMMERSCHMIDT WILL BE ABSENT
THIS EVENING.
>> COMMISSIONER ABRAMS HERE
NOTING THAT COUNCIL MEMBER WILL
BE ABSENT THIS EVENING.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE,
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE HERE
NOTING THAT COMMISSIONER ADAMS
WILL ALSO BE ABSENT THIS
EVENING.
COMMISSIONER NORTON, HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
>> GREAT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
APPROVAL OF AGENDA.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION
COMMISSIONER WHITE SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
IS THERE ANY ANY ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE?
I I ONLY OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES WE HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE MAY
13TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER BY THE
SECOND BY COMMISSIONER APRON'S
ANY DISCUSSION THE MINUTES.
ALL RIGHT ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
SAY AY AY ANY OPPOSED MOTION
CARRIES NEXSTAR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION REPORTS AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
>> WE WILL GO TO MANAGER KELLY
ON BEHALF OF THE COUNCIL REPORT
I CAN SHARE THAT ELEVEN FIFTY
FIVE ARLINGTON THE ANNEXATION
FOR THAT ADDRESS WAS APPROVED
ALSO UPON FIRST READING AN
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT TO MODIFY
LAND DIVISION'S WAS PASSED AND
REAPPOINTMENT WAS APPROVED FOR
COMMISSIONERS LEE HAMMERSCHMIDT
AND ABRAMS WITH TERMS ENDING IN
JUNE TWENTY TWENTY EIGHT FOR
THE MANAGER REPORT YOUR MEETING
HOLD ON FIVE TWENTY SEVEN.
I HAD TOLD YOU A COUPLE
OF MEETINGS BACK THAT WE MIGHT
NEED TO USE THAT FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT IS NOT
THE CASE AND ALSO OUR OUR OUR
TEAM HAS DECIDED THEY WOULD
LIKE TO PUSH SIGNIFICANT WORK
TO BE BETTER READY FOR
DISCUSSION TO THAT JULY
MEETING.
THEREFORE THE MEETING ON THE
TWENTY SEVENTH THAT MEETING
WILL BE CANCELED THE SIX THREE
MEETING IS PROPOSED TO BEGIN AT
FIVE THIRTY PM YOU'LL SEE A
PROPOSED UPDATED CALENDAR IN
TONIGHT'S AGENDA UNDER OTHER
BUSINESS AND THAT MEETING WILL
INCLUDE SEVERAL COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PRESENTATIONS RELATED TO
INFRASTRUCTURE SUSTAINABILITY
,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AS WELL AS
THE IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX FOR
THE DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO MENTION
THAT STAFF ARE UNDERGOING WORK
TO COMPILE THEMES AND TO DO
ADDITIONAL DATA ANALYSIS
OF THESE SURVEYS THAT WE WERE
FILLED OUT BY MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC DURING OUR ENGAGEMENT
SESSIONS AT THE VARIOUS BRANCH
LIBRARIES.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
MANAGER KELLY, DO OTHER
COMMISSIONERS, OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISON HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE TO REPORT?
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET SO
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO THE
FIRST PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS AND TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
ON THE PHONE OR USE A RACE HAND
FEATURE AND ZOOM PHONE ACCESS.
>> PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF IDENTIFY CALLERS
BY THE LAST THREE DIGITS.
THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME ON
ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS
.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
.
HELLO MR. GARBER.
THANK YOU CHARLIE.
YOU CAN GO OVER HEAVY COURT.
IT'S REALLY POSSIBLE I'M THE
ONLY ONE HERE TO SPEAK AFTER
WHAT'S HAPPENED THE LAST COUPLE
OF MONTHS.
OK, I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT
EXCEPTION IN UDC FIVE EIGHTEEN
POINT FOUR LATER TONIGHT YOU'LL
CONSIDER THE SIX TWENTY FIVE
CHURCH PROJECT.
THIS IS THE FOURTH BUILDING IN
JUST THE LAST SEVERAL MONTHS TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY EXCEPTION.
THE OTHERS WERE TROUBLE OHSU
UNIVERSITY SEVENTEEN STORIES
TWELVE ON NINE S UNIVERSITY
NINETEEN STORIES AND THIRTY
THREE THIRTEEN DOWNCOURT SEVEN
STORIES IN D TWO WHICH HAS A 60
FOOT HEIGHT LIMIT.
THE REASON WE'RE SEEING A FLOOD
OF THESE HIGHER RISES IS
BECAUSE IN DECEMBER TWENTY
TWENTY THREE CITY COUNCIL
ELIMINATED FOUR AREA RATIO
LIMITS FOR D1 AND D2.
>> UNTIL THEN FAILURE WAS THE
LIMITING FACTOR IN BUILDINGS
WEREN'T POPPING UP AGAINST THE
HEIGHT LIMITS.
NOW THEY ARE AND THE
SUSTAINABILITY HEIGHT EXCEPTION
TO BECOME THE NORM.
EVERYONE WANTS IT BUT IN MY
OPINION IT'S LESS AND LESS AN
INCENTIVE AND MORE AND MORE A
LOOPHOLE.
NOW WHY DO I SAY THAT NOTE THAT
NO ONE IS GOING FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HIGH EXCEPTION
THAT'S FIFTEEN PERCENT OF YOU
SAID 60 PERCENT ARMY OR PAYMENT
IN LIEU.
ALL THIS SUGGESTS TO ME THAT
THE SUSTAINABILITY EXCEPTION
HIGH EXCEPTION IS TOO EASY.
YOU'VE HEARD ME PUSH
ELECTRIFICATION AD NAUSEUM AT
THIS PODIUM BUT NOW I THINK
WE'RE GIVING AWAY ALL THAT
HEIGHT FOR SOMETHING THAT
DEVELOPERS MAY BE DOING ANYWAY.
CORE SPACES FOR INSTANCE WHEN
ALL ELECTRIC AT THREE THIRTY
THREE IS WILLIAM WITHOUT THE
EXCEPTION WHY DO WE THINK THEY
NEED IT FOR SIX TWENTY FIVE
CHURCH?
SO WHILE THE AFFORDABILITY HIGH
EXCEPTION ISN'T WORKING AT ALL,
THE SUSTAINABILITY EXCEPTION
MAY BE WORKING TOO WELL TO THE
POINT WHERE IT JUST ENABLES
HIGHER DOWNTOWN BUILDINGS.
HERE'S A RADICAL SOLUTION
MODIFY UDC 518 POINT FOUR TO
REQUIRE BOTH SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY IN ORDER TO BE
REWARDED WITH THE THIRTY
PERCENT EXTRA HEIGHT.
>> OTHERWISE I FEAR WE'RE JUST
GIVING IT AWAY WITH NOTHING IN
RETURN EXCEPT SOME TOKEN
ROOFTOP SOLAR THE ELECTRIC
MIGHT BE HAPPENING ANYWAY AT
THIS POINT I'M NOT READY TO
DECLARE VICTORY BUT IT'S BEEN
SEVERAL YEARS SINCE ANY
OF THESE DOWNTOWN HIGH RISES
HAVE PROPOSED GAS HEAT ALL
ELECTRIC FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
HAS BEEN THE NORM ON THE COASTS
FOR SOME TIME NOW AND MAYBE
IT'S NOW BECOMING THE NORM HERE
.
IF SO, I GIVE YOU PEOPLE ALL
THE CREDIT FOR PUSHING IT AT
THIS TABLE FOR YEARS NOW EVEN
YOU CAN'T REQUIRE IT.
SO MAYBE IT'S TIME TO CONSIDER
CHANGING THE UDC HEIGHT
EXCEPTION TO INCLUDE BOTH
AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY.
SEE WHERE SEE WHERE THAT GETS
US MAYBE MORE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN ADDITION TO THE ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDINGS WE'RE SEEING
NOW.
SO THAT'S MY SUGGESTION AND
I'VE RUN OUT OF TIME.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
,MR. CHAIR.
WE DO HAVE ONE ONLINE CALLER
PERFECT.
LISA JAVINS, YOU PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
?
HI, I'M LISA JONES.
TEN FIFTY FOR MARTIN PLACE
TODAY I RECEIVED A LARGE
TRIFOLD FLIER FROM THE CITY
CONTAINING ENFAMIL ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMONG OTHER
ACCOMPLISHED EVENTS IN
POSITIONS OF THE CURRENT
ADMINISTRATION.
YOU WILL PROBABLY RECEIVE THE
FLIER TOO.
I HAVE NEVER RECEIVED A MAILER
LIKE THIS FROM THE CITY AND
EIGHTEEN YEARS OF LIVING HERE
IT REALLY GOT MY ATTENTION.
SO I HAVE A QUESTION THAT I
WOULD LIKE ANSWERED ON THE
RECORD BY THE COMMISSION WHEN
YOU HAVE A CHANCE LATER ON TO
ADDRESS PUBLIC COMMENTS AND I
KNOW THAT I'M SPEAKING FOR MANY
PUBLIC COMMENTERS WHO HAVE
RAISED THIS ISSUE BEFORE MY
QUESTION IS WAS A MAILING LIKE
THIS EVER CONSIDERED IN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR WHEN THE PUBLIC
COMPREHENDS AND PLANNING
PROCESS BEGAN AND IF IT WAS
CONSIDERED WHY WAS NOTHING SENT
AND IF A MAILING WAS NEVER EVEN
CONSIDERED THEN WHY NOT?
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLER?
>> THERE IS ONE OTHER HAND
RAISED PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN
FIVE THREE FOUR YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS PLANNING
COMMISSION
.
THIS IS TOM STOLLBERG CALLING
FOR ONE TWO ZERO TWO THREE
RESTRAINT IN THE HEART
OF LOWERTOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
>> I WANT TO PICK UP ON WHAT
KENT GARBER SAID.
>> WE'VE GOT THAT FLEXIBLE
DEVELOPMENT OPTION IN OUR
CODE AND IT'S ALWAYS GOOD TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THOSE AND SEE
HOW THEY'RE WORKING TWEAK THEM.
IF YOU RECALL THAT WAS
ORIGINALLY THE END WITH A FOOD
ITEM SIMILAR TO THAT WHERE
YOU'VE GOT IF YOU A DEVELOPER
WANTED TO ELIMINATE THEIR
PARKING MINIMUMS, THEY COULD DO
THAT IN EXCHANGE FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR
SUSTAINABILITY'S THAT WAS
SUPERSEDED BY GIVING THE
PARKING AWAY FOR FREE WITH
ANOTHER ORDINANCE LATER ON.
SO HERE'S A SUGGESTION PUT THAT
BACK WHERE THE DEVELOPER CAN
CHOOSE BETWEEN MAYBE TWO OUT
OF THREE OF NO PARKING MINIMUMS
OR THE SUSTAINABILITY OR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
OR THROW IN THE FOURTH MAYBE
HAVE VOLUNTARY DESIGNS A REVIEW
BOARD REVIEW SOMETHING WITH
TEETH IN IT.
BUT WE HAVE A LOT OF ABILITY TO
MAKE VIABLE FLEXIBLE OPTIONS
ARE JUST TWEAKING PERIODICALLY.
I'M ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT WAS SAID THE
LAST MEETING HAD TO DO WITH
TRANSITION DISTRICT WHERE IT
SEEMS LIKE PEOPLE ARE VERY
ADAMANT ON THE PLANNING MISSION
ABOUT IF IT WAS OUR POLICY IT
BECOMES TRANSITION DISTRICT AND
THAT'S JUST WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
STICK TO WITH VERY, VERY RARE
EXCEPTIONS.
NOW YOU WANT TO UPHOLD CERTAIN
AREAS, THE TRANSITION DISTRICT
BUT YOU DON'T WANT TO SOUND
WHAT I WAS HEARING FROM SOME
VOICES THERE.
IT REALLY RAISES ISSUES BECAUSE
OF GETTING RID OF THE FLUX
DISTRICT AND PUTTING A LOT
OF DIFFERENT USERS INTO THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT SO YOU HAVE
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ARE FORCES
THAT ARE PREDOMINANTLY TWO
STOREY HOUSES CURRENTLY NOW
THAT COULD INCLUDE THE OLD OR
HISTORIC DISTRICT THAT INCLUDES
A LOT OF OTHER AREAS, SOME
AREAS IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD AND
NOW THOSE ARE THROWN INTO BEING
TRANSITION DISTRICT AND USES
THAT OF A WHILE, NOT JUST THE
HEIGHTS THAT ARE SO MUCH MORE
THAN RESIDENTIAL BUT THE
DIFFERENT USES THAT ARE ALLOWED
COULD BE PROBLEMATIC IN THOSE
AREAS WHERE THE INFRASTRUCTURE,
THE STREETS AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ITSELF REALLY
CAN'T SUPPORT THOSE TYPE
OF USERS WHO ARE GOING TO BE
ALLOWED IN A TRANSITION
DISTRICT.
BUT LEONARD MENTIONED THAT
AROUND HOTELS AND ALLOW NON
PRIMARY RESIDENCE SHORT TERM
AIRBNB THAT COULD BE
DEVASTATING TO THE CITY AS A
WHOLE, REDUCING OUR HOUSING
STOCK FOR LONG TERM RENTALS
WITH AN EXPLOSION IN SHORT TERM
.
NOW THIS ISN'T FEAR MONGERING.
THIS IS WHAT YOU ALL SAID YOU
WANT.
THOSE ARE FORESE AREAS TO BE
TRANSITION AND THE TRANSITION A
LOT OF HOTELS AND AS I SAID
THAT WOULD ALLOW SHORT TERM
RENTALS.
THIS IS WHERE I HEADED.
SO I KNOW THIS IS OFF FOR
EDITING FOR THE CONSULTANTS AND
STAFF BUT THIS HAS NOT BEEN
WELL ADDRESSED AT THIS POINT IN
TIME.
SO I'M SORRY YOUR TWITTER YOUR
TIME HAS ELAPSED.
THANK YOU.
DO HAVE A COUPLE OF HANDS HAVE
ENROLLING IN WE HAVE ONE MORE
FROM ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ.
>> YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HI ADAM.
JUST GIVE IT HERE.
FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS VEGAS DRIVE
IN THE FOURTH WARD.
I JUST WANT TO ADD ON TO THE
QUESTION AT LEAST EVANS ASKED
EARLIER.
>> I GOT ONE OF THESE MAILINGS
AS WELL BUT I HAVE KIND OF A
RELATED QUESTION TO HER WHEN
WHEN PLANNING SENDS OUT
POSTCARDS ABOUT VARIOUS
DEVELOPMENT AND THINGS LIKE
THAT, OTHER KINDS OF MAILINGS
THAT ARE SENT OUT TO US, HOW
SUCCESSFUL ARE THOSE THAT
ENGAGING RENTERS BECAUSE I'VE
HEARD SOME OF THAT SOME
OF THESE MAILINGS OFTEN GET
RETURNS TO SENDER PARTICULARLY
WHEN THEY'RE SENT TO RESIDENTS
IN MULTIFAMILY
BUILDINGS.
SO I'D LIKE TO HEAR AN ANSWER
TO THAT.
IS THAT IS THAT SOMETHING THAT
WE'VE SEEN THANK THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE OTHER CALLERS?
I DO NOT SEE OTHER HANDS RAISED
AT THIS TIME AND A FEW MORE I'M
SORRY THEY'RE WAS JUST ANOTHER
HAND RAISED AS I SAID THAT
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN SIX FOUR
FOR YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANTED QUESTION FOR THREE
MINUTES
.
>> YES.
MY NAME IS KATHY WORTH.
I LIVE AT 176 CHARLTON IN WARD
AND I ALSO WANT TO HEAR THE
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION AT LEAST
THE GEBEN.
YEAH AND I'D ALSO LIKE TO HEAR
THE ANSWER TO THE PERSON WHO
JUST SPOKE BEFORE ME NOW SO IS
PLANNING COMMISSION COULD
ANSWER THOSE TWO QUESTIONS AT
SOME TIME LATER IN THE MEETING
OR AFTER COMMENTS AFTER PUBLIC
COMMENT IS OVER I'D REALLY LIKE
TO HEAR THE ANSWERS TO THOSE
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER ANY OTHER CALLERS
PHONE NUMBER ANY FOUR SIX FOUR
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HI.
YES WE CAN.
OH GOOD.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YEAH.
LINDA BRAUER AND WE WANT THE
FIFTH WARD AND I WASN'T GOING
TO CALL IN BUT I AM GOING IN
BECAUSE I COULDN'T I CAN'T
COMMENT AND I REALLY WANT TO
ENCOURAGE YOU TO TAKE WHAT HE
SAID VERY, VERY SERIOUSLY.
I AM VERY CONCERNED THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ONLY HAS
ONE ROUTE TO AFFORDABILITY
BESIDES THE WHOLE THING WITH
THE BORDERS VISION MOSTLY
APPROVED AND I SUPPORTED IT AND
THAT'S WONDERFUL.
BUT WE ALL KNOW IT'S NOT ENOUGH
AND I'M CONCERNED WITH THE FREE
COMMISSION HAVE TUNNEL VISION
WHEN IT COMES TO ROADS TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND ITS
DENSITY DENSITY DENSITY AND YOU
KNOW, THAT'S DEBATABLE AND IF
IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN IT'LL BE
DECADES.
>> OK, SO WE NEED OTHER ROUTES
AND I CAN SUGGESTION OF TWO
CITIES IN THE FUTURE.
WE DON'T NEED TO INCENTIVIZE
THAT SO MUCH ANYMORE BUT WE DO
NEED TO INCENTIVIZE AFFORDABLE
AND I KNOW THAT AT LEAST ALL
OF YOU THINK THAT.
I BELIEVE THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT
OF TO ASK DEVELOPERS TO DO
ANYTHING EXTRA FOR THE
COMMUNITY.
BUT I THINK IT'S ABSOLUTELY
ESSENTIAL AND I THINK IF YOU
WANT TO GO BACK HOME THEY NEED
TO DO SOMETHING THAT'S REALLY
GOING TO MAKE A CONTRIBUTION TO
THE COMMUNITY IN TERMS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
AND I REALLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO
RECOMMEND THAT TO CITY COUNCIL
AND THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL
YOUR WORK.
>> THANK YOU, MR. KELLY.
>> IT IT WOULD APPEAR THAT WAS
THE LAST CALLER.
>> OK, WE'LL GIVE IT JUST A FEW
MORE SECONDS
.
>> OK WITH THAT WE WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING
KELLY, THERE ARE CURRENTLY NO
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT MEETING.
AS I MENTIONED, YOU WILL BE
HEARING A SERIES
OF PRESENTATIONS RELATED TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT TAKES US TO ITEM EIGHT A
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WHICH THERE
ARE NONE.
SO THAT TAKES US RIGHT SECTION
NINE EIGHT THIS IS THREE ZERO
THREE DETROIT ST. THERE'S A
PROPOSED PLAN TO CONVERT THREE
OR THREE DETROIT STREET FROM AN
OFFICE RETAIL BUILDING TO A
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING WITH
SIXTEEN UNITS BY ADDING
APPROXIMATELY 10000 SQUARE
FEET.
CONSTRUCTION INCLUDES BUILDING
AN ADDITIONAL FLOOR ON TOP
OF EXISTING BUILDINGS, ADDING
BALCONIES AND CREATING A
PARKING GARAGE IN THE BASEMENT
ACCESSED BY A ROTATING
AUTOMOBILE ELEVATOR FROM A NEW
DRIVEWAY OFF NORTH FOURTH
AVENUE IN THE SITE IS ZONED D
TO DOWNTOWN INTERFACE BASED
ZONING DISTRICT TERRYTOWN
CHARACTER OVERLAY DISTRICT AND
SECONDARY STREET TYPE
DESIGNATION.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO THE
PRESENTERS.
WE HAVE MR. COPP FROM MAVITY AS
WELL AS MARK RODER AND WE HAVE
ALSO VIRTUAL WITH US TOM
FITZSIMMONS AND CATHY CANIFF.
SO WE WILL GO TO YOUR
PRESENTATION FIRST AND THEN
WE'LL GO TO STAFF.
GREAT.
GOOD EVENING.
I MIGHT NEED SOME IT HELP TO
RUN PRESENTATION OR DO YOU RUN
THAT?
YES WE DID ASK FOR THAT IN
ADVANCE FOR THIS REASON IF WE
COULD JUST TAKE A QUICK BREAK,
MR. CHAIR TO US WE WILL TAKE
ONE MINUTE.
>> THANK YOU.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK
.
>> WE WERE AT TWENTY SEVEN
TWENTY THREE SOUTH STATE STREET
WHERE THE PROPERTY OWNER AND
THE DEVELOPER THE PROJECT MARK
RUETER FROM RUETER AND
ASSOCIATES IS THE ARCHITECT
THAT WILL BE PRESENTING WITH ME
AND I THINK REMOTELY WE SHOULD
HAVE TOM FITZSIMMONS FROM HERE
ON CONTRACTING.
HE'S THE BUILDER AND DEVELOPER
AS WELL.
KATHY KIND OF IS FROM AN
ENGINEERING SHE'S A CIVIL
ENGINEER.
SO HOPEFULLY WE HAVE EVERYBODY
THAT YOU NEED TO ASK QUESTIONS.
WE AGREE WITH THE STAFF REPORT
AND THE CONCLUSIONS
RECOMMENDATIONS.
SO I THINK OUR PRESENTATION IS
GOING TO QUICK.
WE ONLY HAVE FIVE SLIDES JUST
TO GIVE YOU SOME CONTEXT.
SO WE ALL ARE TALKING ABOUT THE
SAME THING THIS IS JUST AN
OVERVIEW OF THE LOCATION IN RED
IS THREE OR THREE DETROIT
STREET.
THERE'S A LOT GOING ON IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD AS YOU ALL KNOW
BECAUSE MOST OF IT'S COME
THROUGH YOU.
SO WE WE'VE BEEN IN CONTACT
WITH ALL OF THE NEIGHBORS ON A
REGULAR BASIS.
SO I JUST WANT TO RUN THROUGH
THAT JUST SO THAT YOU KNOW THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO MINIMIZE THE
IMPACTS ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO THE THE PROJECT DIRECTLY
ACROSS DETROIT STREET IS IS OUR
PROJECT AS WELL.
THREE THIRTY DETROIT STREET WE
TRIED TO NAME THEM AS CONFUSING
AS WE COULD FOR OUR OWN
INTERNAL DISCUSSIONS.
THAT'S A FIVE STORY BUILDING
JUST LIKE THIS ONE IS SUPPOSED
TO BE THAT ONE IS NEARING
COMPLETION.
WE EXPECT TO HAVE THAT DONE BY
THE END OF THE YEAR AS YOU
PROBABLY REMEMBER, WE WORKED
CLOSELY WITH BOTH THE THE
FARMERS MARKET AND PHYLLIS AT
THE FILLING STATION TO TRY TO
NOT IMPACT DETROIT STREET.
WE MOVED THE STAGING ON TO
FIFTH AVENUE.
WE EXPECT TO BE DONE WITH THAT
BY THE END OF THE YEAR.
SO I'M IN REGULAR CONTACT WITH
PHYLLIS.
I TALKED TO HER PROBABLY ONCE A
WEEK.
SHE HAS MY CELL PHONE.
I WOULD SAY SHE'S NOT HAPPY
WITH ANY CONSTRUCTION IS ANY
NEIGHBOR WOULD BE BUT I DON'T
THINK SHE'S HERE REMOTELY BUT I
THINK SHE WOULD SAY WE'VE BEEN
VERY RESPONSIVE TO HER
CONCERNS.
I WOULD HOPE SHE WOULD SAY
THAT.
SO THAT'S ONE PROJECT ON ONE
SIDE OBVIOUSLY ON THE OTHER
SIDE IS DUNBARTON.
OUR WE'VE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH
WENDY CURRIE SAXON AT THE
AVALON HOUSING AND THE O'NEIL
PEOPLE THEY HAVE ONE LANE
CLOSED THERE ON FOURTH AVENUE.
THEY EXPECT TO BE IN THAT
BUILDING THE FIRST QUARTER
OF NEXT YEAR SO THAT THAT WILL
COME DOWN SOMETIME PROBABLY
EARLY NEXT YEAR ALSO TALKED
WITH MIKE AND THE TEAM AT BROWN
BRAUN CAUGHT THEIR OBVIOUSLY IN
A VERY SIMILAR TIMELINE TO US
WON'T BE CLOSING AS I
UNDERSTAND ANY OF FOURTH AVENUE
AND BE WORKING FROM THE REAR.
ALL OF THIS BRINGS US TO THE
FARMERS MARKET WHO I'VE TALKED
SEVERAL TIMES, MET WITH REMY
LONG AND ADAM WHO'S THE PROJECT
MANAGER OF THAT PROJECT AND WE
THINK WE'VE REACHED A VERBAL
AGREEMENT TO USE SOME OF THAT
UNUSED SPACE BETWEEN OUR
BUILDINGS BETWEEN OUR
PROPERTIES IS STAGING SO THAT
WE WON'T HAVE TO CLOSE ANY
OF FOURTH AVENUE WHICH
OBVIOUSLY IS VERY IMPORTANT TO
THE FARMERS MARKET NOR LOSE ANY
PARKING ASSOCIATED WITH IT.
SO SO ANYWAY WE'VE TRIED TO BE
VERY RESPONSIVE IN MINIMIZING
THE IMPACT TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
.
I THINK THAT'S PRETTY MUCH THAT
OH, AND JUST JUST TO BACK UP
.
AGAIN CONTEXTUALLY, DUNBARTON
OH, AND JUST JUST TO BACK UP
OUR SIX STORIES BRONKHORST
AGAIN CONTEXTUALLY, DUNBARTON
CAUGHT SEVEN STORIES WE'RE FIVE
OUR SIX STORIES BRONKHORST
STORIES.
CAUGHT SEVEN STORIES WE'RE FIVE
>> THIS IS THE EXISTING
STORIES.
BUILDING.
>> THIS IS THE EXISTING
NAVED HAS OWNED THIS BUILDING
BUILDING.
SINCE NINETEEN EIGHTY.
NAVED HAS OWNED THIS BUILDING
THE FIRST VIEW ON THE LEFT IS
SINCE NINETEEN EIGHTY.
ESSENTIALLY FROM THE BERLIN
THE FIRST VIEW ON THE LEFT IS
COURT SITE.
ESSENTIALLY FROM THE BERLIN
THE BUILDING ON THE RIGHT IS
COURT SITE.
THE OLD WHITE SWAN BUILDING.
THE BUILDING ON THE RIGHT IS
WE ADDED THE ADDITION ON THE
THE OLD WHITE SWAN BUILDING.
LEFT IN NINETEEN EIGHTY EIGHT
WE ADDED THE ADDITION ON THE
NINETEEN EIGHTY NINE AND THEN
LEFT IN NINETEEN EIGHTY EIGHT
THE VIEW FROM ON THE RIGHT IS
NINETEEN EIGHTY NINE AND THEN
FROM
THE FILLING STATION AGAIN
THE WHITE ONE BUILDING ON THE
LEFT IN THIS CASE IN THE
BUILDING WE ADDED ON THE RIGHT
WE PLAN AND I'LL LET MARK GO
THROUGH KIND OF THE ELEVATIONS
HERE NEXT BUT WE ESSENTIALLY
PLAN TO KEEP THE FOOTPRINT
LARGELY INTACT WITH SOME SMALL
MODIFICATIONS ON THE LEFT PHOTO
THE FRONT LEFT AND ADD A COUPLE
OF STORIES TO BRING IT UP TO
THE FIVE STORY LIMIT.
>> I'M GOING TO HAVE TO GO BACK
I THINK OK, THIS ONE.
YES.
YEAH.
GOOD EVENING.
WHEN WE WERE DESIGNING THREE
THIRTY NEXT DOOR THE FLATIRON
BUILDING WE CALLED IT WE CALL
IT WE WE WANTED TO PICK UP ON
THE DETAILS IN THIS BUILDING
THAT FREDERIK HERMANN HAD
DESIGNED.
SO WE HAVE A LONG CONCRETE PLAN
FOR ALONG THAT SIDE OF THE
BUILDING AND OTHER DETAILS ON
THAT BUILDING.
NOW WE HAVE THE OPPOSITE
SITUATION WHERE WE'RE MOVING
ACROSS THE STREET AND
RENOVATING THIS BUILDING FROM
OFFICE SPACE INTO RESIDENTIAL.
NOW ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS
THAT I THOUGHT ABOUT THAT WE
REALLY NEEDED TO DO WAS TO
MAINTAIN THOSE SUNKEN GARDENS
AND THAT OPEN SPACE ALONGSIDE
DETROIT STREET BECAUSE THAT
REALLY SETS THE FEEL IN THE
CHARACTER FOR THAT WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK THEY'RE SO OUR PROPOSAL
DOES INCLUDE IF YOU WERE TO
LOOK AT THAT SLIDE THERE WITH
THE SILO DOESN'T REQUIRE ANY
CHANGE TO THE SILO THERE THE
OLD WHITE SWAN BUILDING OR THE
AGRICULTURAL AS IT WAS
ORIGINALLY CALLED AN EIGHTEEN
FIFTIES HAD EXTENSIVE
RENOVATIONS DONE OVER THE
YEARS.
THE NINETEEN FORTIES, ALL THE
WINDOWS WERE ENLARGED AND THEY
WERE REPLACED WITH ALUMINUM
WINDOWS ORIGINAL SASH WAS ALL
GONE.
THE LOADING DOCKS AND DOORS AND
CANOPY AROUND WAS REPLACED AND
REMOVED.
THE PARAPET WAS RAISED SO THAT
BUILDINGS HAD EXTENSIVE
REPAIRS.
WE ARE PROPOSING TO REMOVE
THOSE CONTEMPORARY WINDOWS AND
REPLACE THOSE WITH WINDOWS MORE
IN CHARACTER WITH A TRADITIONAL
HISTORY BUILDING SO THAT WILL
THAT APPEARS IN THE RENDERINGS
AND IT DOESN'T APPEAR HERE NOW
THE OTHER ITEM THAT IS GOING TO
STAY IS THAT CURTAIN WALL
SYSTEM ALTHOUGH YOU MAY NOTICE
THERE'S GOING TO BE EXTENSIVE
RENOVATION OF THAT AND SOME
OF THESE COMPONENTS WILL NEED
TO BE REMOVED.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE GLAZING IS
FAILING.
IT'S BEEN ALMOST 40 YEARS THAT
THAT BUILDING'S BEEN THERE.
SO EVEN LOOKS LIKE A BRAND NEW
BUILDING.
IT'S HAD FORTY YEARS OF WEAR
AND TEAR ON THE GLAZING, THE
GLAZING SEALS, THE GLAZING, THE
CURTAIN WALL SYSTEMS.
SO AS A CONSTRUCTION RECEDES IT
MAY LOOK LIKE WE'RE KIND
OF DEMOLISHING THE BUILDING BUT
WE'RE TAKING THINGS DOWN,
REPAIRING THEM OR REPLACING
THEM AND PUTTING BACK AGAIN THE
THE WHO IN THIS BUILDING WAS
RENOVATED IN NINETEEN EIGHTY
EIGHT EIGHTY NINE EXTENSIVE
FOUNDATION REPAIRS BY DARVAS
WERE DONE TO THE BUILDING SO
AND THE CONCRETE BUILDING THAT
WAS DONE WAS A VERY ROBUST
STRUCTURE AND IT ALSO BENEFITS
FROM THE FACT THAT WE'RE IN THE
SORT OF GLACIAL OUTLASH PLAIN
WITH A LOT OF SAND AND GRAVEL
SO ARE BEARING CAPACITY IS
TREMENDOUS UNDER THE UNDER BOTH
OF THESE BUILDINGS.
SO THEY HAVE BEEN BEEFED UP
STRUCTURALLY SO THEY ARE ABLE
TO TAKE THAT ADDITIONAL FLOOR
LOAD AND THAT'S KIND OF WHY
WE'RE PROPOSING PARTLY BECAUSE
WE DID NOT WANT TO TAKE UP ANY
OF THE SPACE IN THE FRONT FOR
ANY KIND OF ADDITIONS EVEN
THOUGH WE WE COULD HAVE DONE IT
SO THAT THAT REALLY IS OUR
DESIGN APPROACH TO HOW WE
APPROACH THIS BUILDING AND A
FAIR MANY QUESTIONS LATER WE'LL
BE HAPPY TO ANSWER THEM.
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
STAFF PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU TO OUR
PRESENTERS.
I AM PRESENTING THIS ON BEHALF
OF MY COLLEAGUE JULIA SHAC SO
I'LL DO MY BEST TO PULL OUT
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT SHE
MENTIONED IN THE STAFF REPORT.
>> AS MENTIONED, THIS IS A
CONVERSION OF AN EXISTING
BUILDING SO THE FOOTPRINT IS
REMAINING MUCH THE SAME.
THEY'RE ADDING AN EXTRA FLOOR
TO THE TOP AND THEN SOME
BALCONIES THERE WILL BE ALSO
KIND OF FUN A CAROUSEL ELEVATOR
PARKING SYSTEM.
THEY'LL BE INTEGRATED ELECTRIC
VEHICLE CHARGING SYSTEMS AND A
NEW DRIVEWAY FROM THE NORTH
FOURTH STREET TO ACCESS THAT IN
TERMS OF SUSTAINABILITY, THE
RESIDENCES WILL BE CREATED IN
AN EXISTING BUILDING REDUCING
THE CARBON NECESSARY FOR NEW
CONCRETE AND STEEL FOUNDATIONS,
STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS AND OTHER
ENERGY INTENSIVE BUILDING
MATERIALS AND THE EXISTING
GEOTHERMAL BUILDING SYSTEM WILL
BE REUSED AND COMBINED WITH NEW
ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS FOR LOWER
ENERGY USE.
AS I MENTIONED THERE WILL BE
ELECTRIC VEHICLE INSTALLED
PARKING SPACES.
THERE WILL BE BICYCLE PARKING
THIRTY NINE CLASS A AND ONE
CLASS C BIKE PARKING SPACES AND
THEN THE PROJECT WILL
RECONSTRUCT THE PEDESTRIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE ALONG FOR ST
CATHERINE STREET AND JUST RIGHT
STREETS IN TERMS OF THE
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW THERE ARE A
FEW INSTANCES IN THE STREET
HALL STREET WHILE HEIGHT IN THE
MACING ARTICULATION WHERE THEY
DON'T MEET THE EXISTING
CHARACTER OVERLAY ZONING
DISTRICTS BUT THAT'S FINE
BECAUSE THE EXISTING BUILDING
WAS BUILT BEFORE THAT DECEMBER
TWENTY SIX TWENTY NINE DATE AS
SPECIFIED IN THE CODE THE
PROJECT DID GO TO THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD WHICH IS WHY THERE
IS NO ADDITIONAL STAFF DESIGN
REVIEW WITH THE NEW CHANGES TO
THE DESIGN REVIEW BOARD SYSTEM
.
IT WENT IN OCTOBER OF TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AND THEN JUST
ANOTHER NOTE AS APPLICANT SAID
THEY HAVE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH
THE PARKS AND RECREATION
DEPARTMENT ABOUT COORDINATING
FOR THE MARKET.
>> ADDITIONALLY THE
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION OF CITY
STAFF REQUESTED MINIMIZING SOME
OF THE NEGATIVE IMPACTS OF THE
DUMPSTERS ON PEDESTRIAN
VISIBILITY AND THE RIGHT OF WAY
THROUGH SOME MITIGATION
MEASURES THAT ARE NOTED IN THE
STAFF REPORTS AND
TRANSPORTATION ACKNOWLEDGES
THAT SOME OF OUR AIMS CONFLICT
WITH STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
FOR OTHER UNITS OF THE CITY
SUCH AS SOLID WASTE AND A DRAFT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IS
CURRENTLY IN PROGRESS FOR A
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION OF TEN
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR
IMPROVEMENTS TO NEARBY AND
COMMUNITY WIDE PARKS.
I THINK THAT'S ALL I HAVE FOR
NOW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE INTO PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US
CITIZENS AND INDIVIDUALS TO
SPEAK UP THREE MINUTES ON THE
SIDE AND WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM
THOSE PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE A RAISED HAND
FEATURE ON ZOOM IN FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND MEETING NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TO DO SIX CITIES IDENTIFY
CALLERS FOR THE LAST THREE
HOURS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND
PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AREA MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISES
WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
>> HI HELLO VERY MUCH.
I'M LISA YOUNG.
I LIVE AT ONE SIXTH THIRD
STREET AND I'M ACTUALLY HERE
TONIGHT AS THE CURRENT CHAIR
OF THE PUBLIC MARKET ADVISORY
COMMISSION OR PENNYMAC.
PEMEX SERVES TO ADVISE THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL PARKS
ADVISORY COMMISSION AND THE
MARKET MANAGER REGARDING ISSUES
RELATED TO THE OPERATION OF THE
FARMER'S MARKET.
AND AS HAS BEEN ACKNOWLEDGED
HERE TONIGHT AND AS YOU ALL
KNOW, THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF CONSTRUCTION AROUND THE
FARMERS MARKET.
IT'S ALL EXCITING BUT WHEN
THOSE CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
HAPPEN AT THE SAME TIME IT
CREATES A LOT OF CHAOS FOR THE
FARMERS MARKET.
BOTH THE THREE THIRTY DETROIT
CONDOMINIUMS AND DUMBA TOWER
HAVE RESULTED IN STREET
CLOSURES WHICH HAVE MADE ACCESS
TO THE MARKET DIFFICULT FOR
BOTH VENDORS AND CONSUMERS AND
HAS ALREADY BEEN ACKNOWLEDGED
JUST EXACERBATES THE CONTINUAL
PARKING PROBLEMS AT THE MARKET.
AND ALTHOUGH I APPRECIATE THAT
THE DEVELOPERS HAVE BEEN
TALKING TO THE FOLKS IN PARKS,
I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
LAST SUMMER DURING THE INITIAL
PHASES OF THE THREE THIRTY
DETROIT STREET CONSTRUCTION THE
WELDING NOISE ON SOME WEDNESDAY
MARKETS MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE TO
COMMUNICATE WITH VENDORS AND I
WAS THERE FOR SEVERAL OF THOSE
.
SO WHAT I'VE LEARNED FROM
WATCHING THESE TWO CONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS IS THAT COMMUNICATION
NOT ONLY WITH THE PARK STAFF
BUT ALSO WITH THE MARKET
MANAGER AND THE MARKET STAFF IS
REALLY CRITICAL AND THE
DUNBARTONSHIRE TEAM HAS DONE AN
ABSOLUTELY EXCELLENT JOB DOING
THAT AND THE INITIAL PHASES
OF CONSTRUCTION OF THREE
DETROIT STREET WERE GREATLY
IMPROVED WHEN THERE WAS A CITY
STAFF MEMBER THAT HELPED
FACILITATE THE COMMUNICATION
AND LOGISTICS, ESPECIALLY WITH
THE MARKET MANAGER.
SO WITH THE APPROVAL OF THE
WARREN COURT PROJECT AND THE
PROPOSED EXPANSION OF THREE OR
THREE DESTROYED STREET
BUILDING, THE MEMBERS OF P ARE
DEEPLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE WAYS
THESE PROJECTS WILL IMPACT THE
FARMERS MARKET, ESPECIALLY IF
THEY ARE HAPPENING AT THE SAME
TIME.
SO WE REQUEST THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION REALLY ENCOURAGE
THIS COORDINATION BETWEEN THE
DEVELOPERS AND THE CITY TO NOT
ONLY AT THE HIGHER LEVELS BUT
AT THOSE DAY TO DAY LEVELS WHEN
THERE'S THE MARKETS ARE
HAPPENING SO THAT THERE CAN BE
COMMUNICATION WITH THE MARKET
MANAGER AND THE STAFF TO HELP
VENDORS FIGURE OUT HOW TO
UNLOAD
WHEN THEIR STREET
CLOSURES.
AND I'M ALSO REALLY WORRIED AT
HOW CLOSE THE PROPERTIES ARE IN
TERMS OF SAFETY WHEN THE UPPER
STORIES ARE HAPPENING AT THE
THREE THREE THREE STOREY
PROJECT.
SO BASICALLY WHAT WE'RE ASKING
IS FOR THE DEVELOPERS TO BE
GOOD NEIGHBORS, ESPECIALLY
DURING MARKET DAYS.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER FOLKS
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME
?
>> MR ABBOTT?
THANKS CHARLIE.
CAN GARBER AGAIN?
YEAH, IT'S QUITE REMARKABLE HOW
THE FARMERS MARKET IS LITERALLY
SURROUNDED BY NEW DEVELOPMENTS
ALL HAPPENING ROUGHLY AT THE
SAME TIME.
SO I SYMPATHIZE MISSING HIS
CONCERNS ABOUT MINIMIZING
IMPACT ON THE FARMERS MARKET
OPERATIONS.
I GO THERE EVERY SATURDAY AND
OFTEN ON WEDNESDAY.
SO BUT ABOUT THREE OR THREE
DETROIT I USED TO WORK IN THE
WHITE WINE BUILDING SO I'M
REALLY GLAD TO SEE A CONVERSION
TO RESIDENTIAL RATHER THAN YOU
KNOW, A DEMOLITION REBUILD AND
PRESERVING THAT HISTORIC
BUILDING AND SOUNDS LIKE
ENHANCING IT WITH WINDOWS AND
OTHER FEATURES 13 PARKING
SPACES FOR 16 UNITS SEEMS
REASONABLE.
NOT EVERYONE HAS GIVEN UP
POWERS LIKE I HAVE SO I
RECOGNIZE THAT ESPECIALLY SINCE
THIS REVOLVING PARKING CAROUSEL
KEEPS THE PARKING FOOTPRINT
DOWN.
>> VERY CURIOUS ABOUT HOW THAT
WORKS.
MISS MELANIE CORCORAN IS IT
STATED THANK YOU FOR THE REPORT
STATED THAT THE EXISTING
GEOTHERMAL BUILDING SYSTEM WILL
BE REUSED COMBINED WITH NEW
ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS FOR LOWER
ENERGY USE.
SO A QUESTION ABOUT THAT THAT
SOUNDS GREAT BUT I RECALL THAT
THE GEOTHERMAL WELLS ARE
LOCATED ACROSS THE STREET AT
THREE THIRTY BUILDING NOW
NEARING COMPLETION AND I THINK
I REMEMBER CORNERING MR COBB IN
THE HALLWAY OUTSIDE A
BROWNFIELD AUTHORITY MEETING
AND HE TOLD ME THAT THEY ARE
PRESERVING THOSE WELLS THROUGH
ALL THEIR CONSTRUCTION.
BUT IF THEY'RE NOT ENOUGH TO
HEAT BOTH BUILDINGS AND THEY
THAT THEY WON'T BE USED TO HEAT
THREE THIRTY BUT THEY WILL BE
AS MCMELLON CORKMAN SAID, THE
REPURPOSED OR REFURBISHED FOR
THE THREE OR THREE BUILDING
REALLY HARD TO GET USED TO
THOSE TWO ADDRESSES.
SO MY QUESTION IS WHAT
PROPORTION OF THREE THREE
DETROIT STREETS HEATING NEEDS
WILL BE SERVED BY THE WELLS AND
THE NEW HEAT PUMPS IS AT 100
PERCENT OR WILL GAS FURNACES OR
BOILERS ALSO BE PART OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT TO SUPPLEMENT THE
GEOTHERMAL ALSO WILL THERE BE
ANY ROOF PHOTOVOLTAICS FOR
ENERGY ELECTRICITY GENERATION
SO ON THE OVERALL SEEMS LIKE A
REALLY GREAT PROJECT
REDEVELOPMENT OF AN EXISTING
BUILDING NOT EXCESSIVE PARKING
BUT I'M WONDERING ABOUT
GEOTHERMAL CAPACITY FOFO TO USE
IN PLANTS FOR SOLAR IF ANY.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK THIS TIME.
>> OK, SEE DO WE HAVE ANY
REMOTE CALLERS TO KOLLER'S?
THE FIRST IS GREG MONROE.
>> YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
WE CAN'T HEAR YOU IF YOU'RE
SPEAKING
FROM GREG MONROE.
I SEE THAT YOU LOWERED YOUR
HAND IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AGAIN PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND.
WE CAN HEAR YOU OUR NEXT RAISED
HAND IS PHONE NUMBER ENDIAN
FIVE THREE FOUR.
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANNING PERMISSION
LEAVING
AGAIN THIS TIME STALBERG I'LL
BE VERY BRIEF.
>> I'M REALLY HAPPY TO SEE
ADAPTIVE REUSE AND SO
DEVELOPMENT TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF NOT DEMOLISHING A STRUCTURE
AND STRUCTURE IS THE ONE THAT
YOU DON'T DEMOLISH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
BRINGING THIS PROJECT TO US AND
I THANK YOU MR. STALBERG.
MR. MONROE RERAISES NO THAT HAS
NOT HAPPENED.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO OTHER CALLERS AT
THIS TIME FOR TWO MORE SECONDS
THAT HAND DID JUST RAISE AGAIN.
OK, OK ONE MORE TIME YOU
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS PLANNING
PERMISSION
MR. NINE OR MISS
SOUNDS LIKE IT'S ON ZOOME
PLEASE TRY TO ON MEET YOUR SELF
YOU CAN WE STILL CAN'T HEAR YOU
THAT THIS PERSON IS NOT JOINING
IPHONE THEY ARE JOINING BY
BAZOO
AND THEY HAVE FALLEN OFF
AGAIN TOTALLY FROM THE ZEM CALL
.
OK SO ALL RIGHT DO WE HAVE ANY
OTHER CALLERS ON THE LINE.
WE DO NOT.
>> OK TWO MORE SAIGON'S OK BUT
THAT WILL CLOSE UP A COMMON ALL
RIGHT.
>> I'M GOING TO READ OFF THE
MOTION OPPOSE MOTION HERE.
THIS IS AT THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVES
THE 303 DETROIT STREET SITE
PLAN VERSION FOUR DATED MAY 5TH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR A
PARKS CONTRIBUTION IN THE
AMOUNT OF TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS.
SO WE ARE GOING IN TO
DISCUSSION WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO
KICK US OFF ON IT?
>> OH YES.
I'M SO SORRY.
I NEED A MOVE.
YES COMMISSIONER I NEED A
SECOND.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE, THANK
YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
>> COMMISSIONER EVANS, I'D LOVE
TO GIVE THE PETITIONER A CHANCE
TO ANSWER SOME OF THE QUESTIONS
THAT MR. GARBER RAISED ABOUT
GEOTHERMAL CAPACITY, SOLAR
PANELS AND NATURAL GAS
CONNECTION.
SO WHOMEVER FROM YOUR TEAM YOU
THINK IS BEST SUITED TO ANSWER
THAT?
YEAH, THANKS GREAT CUP AGAIN
WITH EMBIID SO MR. GROVER HAS A
GREAT MEMORY MAYBE BETTER THAN
MINE SO WHEN WE CAME BEFORE YOU
FOR THE THREE THIRTY THERE'S
ELEVEN THERE WERE ELEVEN WELLS
SIX HUNDRED FEET DEEP WELLS
UNDERNEATH THAT PARKING LOT WAS
A PARKING LOT THERE THEY WERE
INSTALLED TWENTY TEN TWENTY
TWELVE PROBABLY ONE OF THE
FIRST GEOTHERMAL SYSTEMS
CERTAINLY IN THE CITY THAT WE
DID AS A KIND OF A TRIAL THING
FED THE BUILDING ACROSS THE
STREET WE HAVE AN EASEMENT FROM
THE CITY TO GO UNDERNEATH
DETROIT STREET WITH THE PIPING
AND WE HEATED AND COOLED MAYBE
THIRTY PERCENT OF THAT BUILDING
WITH THAT SYSTEM AT THAT TIME
AT THAT MEETING WE HADN'T DONE
THE MAP DESIGN YET AND I
COMMITTED TO THE COMMISSION AND
MR. GERBER THAT WE WOULD PURSUE
KEEPING THOSE WELLS.
THAT WAS THE INTENT.
BUT CONSTRUCTION IS
CONSTRUCTION RIGHT?
AND IT WASN'T SURE WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN.
WE DID LOSE ONE OF THOSE WELLS
IN THE PROCESS.
SO WE HAVE 10 WELLS NOW THEY
ARE CURRENTLY HEATING COOLING A
PORTION OF THE BUILDING AND OUR
INTENT IS TO USE THEM TO THE
EXTENT THAT WE CAN ON THIS
BUILDING.
SO AGAIN, WE HAVEN'T WE JUST
KICKED OFF HIRED AN MSP FIRM
LAST WEEK, GAVE THEM THAT
DIRECTION.
BUT AS YOU ALL KNOW, THAT TAKES
MONTHS TO GET THROUGH THAT
DESIGN AND I CAN'T TELL YOU
TODAY HOW MUCH WE'RE GOING TO
USE BUT THAT'S THE INTENT.
THERE'S A SUBSTANTIAL
INVESTMENT IN THAT IN THOSE
WELLS THAT WE'D LIKE TO REUSE.
BUT IT'S IT'S NOWHERE NEAR
ENOUGH TO HEAT AND COOL THE
BUILDING AND THE LIMIT WITHDREW
FROM AGAIN, YOU GUYS KNOW THIS
PROBABLY EVEN BETTER THAN I DO
IS IS TYPICALLY ON THE ON THE
COOLING I'M SORRY THE LIMIT IS
ON THE HEATING SIDE.
RIGHT.
SO WE HAVE ENOUGH TO COOL IT
SUPPLEMENT THE HEATING SIDE AND
TO ANSWER THE QUESTION ABOUT
GAS, THERE IS A GAS CONNECTION
TO THE BUILDING.
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP THE GAS
CONNECTION.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A NATURAL
GAS GENERATOR BEYOND THAT AGAIN
WE HAVEN'T DONE THE DESIGN.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT WE'RE GOING
TO DO.
HIS STRICKLY WE'VE USED OR TOM
HAS USED HEAT PUMPS TO HEAT AND
COOL THE SPACES WITH SOME
SUPPLEMENTAL GAS HEAT FOR THE
COLD WEATHER MONTHS.
WE WILL AT A MINIMUM PUT MAKE
IT SOLAR READY ON THE ROOF AS
TO WHETHER WE'RE GOING TO PUT
SOLAR PANELS UP OR NOT.
WE HAVEN'T FIGURED IT OUT
BECAUSE THESE ARE GOING TO BE
FOR SALE UNITS.
SO THEN YOU GOT TO FIGURE OUT
WHO GETS THE SOLAR AND WHO
DOESN'T KIND OF THINGS BUT WE
WILL PREP IT FOR THAT AND ALL
THE CAR SPACES WILL BE HAVE EV
CHARGERS THEY WON'T BE READY.
THEY'LL HAVE FULL CHARGERS THAT
ANSWER QUESTION.
YEP.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN I RESPOND TO THE FARMER'S
MARKET ON TO UH I'LL ASK IT.
>> OH YES YEAH.
GIVE US JUST A SECOND.
THANKS MR. KARPIAK.
COMMISSIONER WHAT YOU CAN HERE
I JUST WANTED TO GET A BETTER
ANSWER ON MR. ROBERTS QUESTION.
SO YOU STATED THAT CURRENTLY
THE BUILDING IS ONLY BEING
SUPPORTED BY THOSE WELLS AT
THIRTY PERCENT BUT WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT YOUR PLAN IS YOU WANT
TO MAINTAIN THAT BUT YOU CAN'T
COMMIT TO ANYTHING GREATER THAN
WHAT IT'S CURRENTLY DOING.
SO IT'S ONE JUST WENT OFFLINE.
SO YOUR I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT I HEARD YOU CORRECTLY
WITH IT.
>> I CAN'T REMEMBER EXACTLY THE
BTU CAPACITY BUT THERE'S NOT
ENOUGH TO HEAT AND COOL MORE
THAN THIRTY PERCENT OF THE
BUILDING.
OK, THAT'S THE GOAL IS TO TRY
TO USE IT AT LEAST FOR THE
COMMON AREAS AND AND MAYBE SOME
OF THE UNITS BUT WE HAVEN'T
EVEN GOTTEN INTO THAT DESIGN.
THERE'S THERE'S SOME SPACE
LIMITATIONS AND SOME OTHER
THINGS THAT THAT THE MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING NEEDS TO WORK
THROUGH AND THESE ARE FOR SALE
UNITS YOU SAID YES.
>> OK, AND SO THEN MY QUESTION
AND POSED THE QUESTION FROM THE
AUDIENCE ABOUT THE FARMERS
MARKET IS YOU CAN ANSWER THAT
WAS ABOUT THE SECOND GARTIN
BECAUSE I REMEMBER THERE WAS A
RESTAURANT THAT WAS DOWN THERE
AT ONE POINT, CORRECT?
YEAH.
SO WHAT'S THE PLAN FOR THAT AND
HOW ARE YOU PLANNING TO
ACTIVATE THAT SPACE SO THERE'LL
BE UNITS IN THE BASEMENT THAT
WILL SHOW THAT SO IT'LL BE
OUTDOOR SPACE FOR THE RESIDENTS
.
OK AND THEN ON TO THE FARMER'S
MARKET BECAUSE YOU ARE RIGHT,
THERE'S A LOT OF CONSTRUCTION
THERE.
IT'S A VERY TIGHT LITTLE SPACE
BETWEEN YOUR BUILDING AND WHAT
WAS THE FARMER'S MARKET
BUILDING WHICH I THINK IS NOW
BEEN REMOVED.
YEAH, I WAS I WAS JUST THERE
TODAY SO I THINK IT'S
COMPLETELY GONE.
YEAH.
SO THE QUESTION THAT CAME FROM
THE AUDIENCE WAS EXCUSE ME FROM
THE PARTICIPANT CITIZEN
PARTICIPANTS WERE AROUND HOW
YOU PLAN TO ON MARKET DAYS DEAL
WITH ISSUES RELATED TO
CONSTRUCTION THAT MAY IMPEDE
THE MARKET.
>> YEAH AND WAS SO RIGHT.
YEAH.
SO WE ARE ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT
WITH STEPHANIE ON A REGULAR
BASIS HAS MY INFORMATION.
IT'S A IT'S A HARDER ISSUE
QUITE FRANKLY BECAUSE NOT ONLY
I MEAN WE CAN'T CONTROL WHEN WE
FELT WE CAN'T CONTROL WHEN WE
RUN A PILEDRIVER OR WHATEVER.
RIGHT.
I MEAN CONSTRUCTION HAS TO MOVE
AT A CERTAIN PACE AND SO WE ARE
COGNIZANT OF PARTICULARLY
WEDNESDAY MARKET DAYS WE TRY TO
MINIMIZE THE WORK ON SATURDAYS
FOR A WHOLE HOST OF REASONS
INCLUDING THE FARMERS MARKET
BEING THERE.
BUT WEDNESDAYS TEND TO BE
REALLY PROBLEMATIC WHEN THEY
RUN FROM EIGHT SEPTEMBER I
THINK IT IS OR OCTOBER SO ONE
OF THE BIG CHALLENGES WE'VE HAD
IS THAT AND WE'VE SUGGESTED
THIS TO MANY PEOPLE IS THAT
THOSE PARKING SPACES AT THE
NORTH END OF IF I CAN JUST MOVE
THIS BACK AT THE NORTH END
OF DETROIT STREET, THAT'S WHERE
THE VENDORS LIKE TO GET THERE
AND LOAD EARLY AND ON NORMAL
DAYS WHEN THERE'S NOT
CONSTRUCTION THEY GET THERE
EARLY BECAUSE NOBODY GETS THERE
EARLY.
WELL, YOU KNOW WHO ELSE GETS
THERE EARLY CONSTRUCTION EYES
AND THEIR PUBLIC PARKING
SPACES.
SO IT'S REALLY HARD FOR ME TO
GET DOWN THE CHAIN OF COMMAND
AND SAY YOU CAN USE THESE
PUBLIC SPACES BUT YOU CAN'T USE
THOSE PUBLIC SPACES.
RIGHT.
AND SO IF THERE'S SOME WAY WITH
THE THE PARKING PEOPLE TO MAKE
THOSE LOADING FOR FARMERS
MARKET ONLY ON MARKET DAYS OR
WHATEVER THAT SOLVES THE
PROBLEM.
RIGHT.
BUT INSTEAD WHAT TENDED TO
HAPPEN WAS YOUR GUYS ARE
PARKING HERE.
WE HAD TO ASK THEM TO MOVE.
THEY SAID WHY DO I HAVE TO
MOVE?
IT'S A PUBLIC SPACE.
IT JUST GETS PROBLEMATIC.
SO AGAIN, I'M GLAD TO WORK WITH
ONE PERSON AT THE FARMERS
MARKET, WHOEVER THAT MAY BE AND
THEY CAN CALL ME AND WE
SCRAMBLED TO MOVE PEOPLE BUT I
THINK THERE'S A LARGER WAY TO
FIX THAT TOO.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT STAFF
CAN HELP WITH BECAUSE IT
CERTAINLY FEELS OUT OF SCOPE
FOR US TO SET OFF PUBLIC
PARKING BUT IT FEELS LIKE THAT
MIGHT BE A NICE COORDINATION.
>> YEAH, THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT HAS ASSISTED TO THE
TO THE GREATEST EXTENT ASKED
FOR AN POSSIBLE I'VE CHECKED IN
WITH STEPHANIE STOUFFER'S, A
MARKET MANAGER.
SO WHEN THEY'RE REFERENCING
STEPHANIE THAT THE PARKS
RECREATION DEPARTMENT MARKET
MANAGER AND I AT THE REQUEST
OF SOME STAFF IN THAT
DEPARTMENT STARTED TO ENGAGE
WITH MISS STOFER AND SOME OTHER
FOLKS MAYBE THE MIDDLE OF LAST
YEAR AND CONNECTED THEM WITH
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY TO DISCUSS PARKING
MANAGEMENT SPECIFIC.
LEE PUT THEM IN TOUCH WITH A
SPECIFIC IN SPECTER'S AND
ENGINEERING FOR OTHER TYPES
OF CONSTRUCTION BEHAVIOR THAT
THEY HAD CONCERNS ABOUT OR
QUESTIONS ABOUT AND WANTED TO
HAVE QUICK COMMUNICATION ON.
>> UM BASICALLY A WIDE VARIETY
OF STAFF TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERING ANYONE THAT THEY
WERE NOT ALREADY AWARE OF OR IN
TOUCH WITH ON A FIRST NAME
BASIS.
WE MADE THAT CONNECTION AND
THEN I FOLLOWED UP SEVERAL
TIMES JUST TO SAY DO YOU HAVE
EVERYTHING THAT YOU NEED OR ARE
YOU GETTING WHAT YOU NEED?
AND THE ANSWER WAS WE'RE OK FOR
NOW.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT THAT IS
ENOUGH.
I WOULD I MENTIONED THIS WHEN
WE WERE DISCUSSING THE BRAND
COURT DEVELOPMENT THAT IT'S AN
AREA OF CONCERN FOR STAFF, THE
MARKET VITALITY.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT UM I
THINK THERE'S MORE TO BE DONE
BUT IT'S JUST AN EVOLVING
SITUATION IN TERMS OF THE
PARKING SPECIFICALLY THE BEST
PERSON TO ADDRESS THAT WOULD BE
MISS STOFER IN COORDINATION
WITH THE D.A. SO I DID HAVE
ANOTHER QUESTION.
IT WAS ABOUT THE SOLID WASTE.
SO JUST FOR MY EDIFICATION, HOW
ARE YOU ALL HANDLING THE SOLID
WASTE SO WE'LL HAVE WE'LL HAVE
JANITORIAL PEOPLE JUST LIKE
WE'RE PROPOSING ACROSS THE
STREET THAT WILL COME THROUGH
THE BUILDING AND THEN I'LL TAKE
OUT THE DUMPSTERS ON DUMP ON
TRASH DAYS AND THOSE ARE TWO
WHAT'S THE SIZE OF THE DUMPSTER
SORRY THOSE I THINK ARE SIMILAR
TO I MEAN IF YOU LOOK IN THIS
PHOTO ON THE LEFT THE CARD SIZE
I THINK SO I DON'T KNOW KATHY
FOUR MAYBE KATHY CAN PROBABLY
CORRECT ME IF SHE'S ONLINE BUT
SAME LOCATION FOR SURE.
SO WILL THAT AND THE LIGHT
OF COMMISSIONER DISHES ABSENCE
WILL THAT ALSO ALLOW THE OWNERS
TO COMPOST?
DOES IT DOES THAT WORK HERE?
I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT
.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES.
OH YEAH.
HI, THIS IS KATHY KIND
OF MAKING ENGINEERING THE
DUMPSTERS ARE TWO CUBIC YARDS
DUMPSTERS THAT ARE SUPPLIED BY
THE CITY BY SOLID WASTE AND AT
THIS TIME THERE IS NO COMPOST
COLLECTION TO THIS SITE
DOWNTOWN.
SO WE HAVEN'T PROVIDED FOR
COMPOSTING.
SO THAT MEANS THAT THE CITY IS
NOT PROVIDING SERVICE TO PICK
OUT OK ALL RIGHT OK.
>> I THINK THOSE WERE MY
QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE AN WE'LL GO TO
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
THIS ONE IS ONE JUST BECAUSE
I'M CURIOUS DO YOU HAVE ANY
MORE INFORMATION ON HOW THE
PARKING SITUATION WORKS LIKE I
ASSUME IT'S GOING TO BE RIGHT
OFF THAT WHERE KIND OF THE
GREEN GLASSES NOW?
>> YEAH, ESSENTIALLY WHERE THE
OPENING IS THERE NOW THE
EXISTING CURB CUT IS REALLY
JUST FOR DUMPSTER'S.
THAT'S WHERE THE GARBAGE OR THE
SOLID WASTE IS STORED.
BUT THAT WILL BE AN OPENING
WITH A GARAGE DOOR.
THERE'LL BE A SMALL AREA IN
THERE BE ESSENTIALLY A GARAGE
WITH A TURNTABLE SO THEY'LL
DRIVE IN THE TURNTABLE WILL
MOVE INTO THE THERE'S EIGHTY
EIGHT SPACE THERE AND THEN
THERE'S A CAROUSEL AND THE
CAROUSEL IT'S ESSENTIALLY A
MERRY GO ROUND FOR CARS BUT
IT'S MORE SHAPED RIGHT SO IT
JUST OCCUPIES THE SPACE OF TWO
PARKING SPACES AND THEN IT
ROTATES AROUND TO THE OPEN
SPACE SO AND SURPRISINGLY
ENERGY EFFICIENT IT'S LIKE A
TWENTY HORSEPOWER MOTOR WHICH
IS A SMALL ELEVATOR MOTOR VERY
QUIET.
TOM AND I ACTUALLY WENT DOWN IN
AND TESTED ONE DOWN IN
PITTSBURGH AND IT'S REALLY
PRETTY SIMPLE.
>> IT SOUNDS MORE COMPLICATED
THAN IT IS AND THE CARS WILL
ALWAYS BE FACING FORWARD WHEN
THEY COME OUT.
SO YEAH.
SO RIGHT.
I SHOULD HAVE POINTED THAT OUT
TOO SO THEY'LL DRIVE IN THE
BACK OUT ONTO THAT TURNTABLE
TURNTABLE TURN AROUND AND THEY
PULL OUT FACE FIRST BECAUSE
JUST THERE IS A LOT OF I MEAN
HEY THAT'S REALLY COOL BUT ALSO
THERE IS A LOT OF PEDESTRIAN I
MEAN A LOT A LOT OF PEDESTRIANS
THERE AT CERTAIN TIMES AND
HAVING PEOPLE BACK OUT.
>> YEAH.
IT'LL BE PROBLEMATIC.
THAT'S THE WHOLE PURPOSE OF THE
TURNTABLE SO THAT THEY WILL
COME OUT FRONT FACE AND YOU
KNOW THE CHALLENGE FOR THIS
SITE IS THERE'S REALLY NO BACK
TO IT.
YEAH.
SO WE CONSCIOUSLY PICKED THIS
PART BECAUSE THE YOU'RE RIGHT
THERE'S A LOT OF PEDESTRIANS
BUT NOWHERE NEAR WHAT THEY'RE
ON DETROIT'S ROAD ESPECIALLY ON
A MARKET DAY.
>> SO IT CERTAINLY WOULDN'T
WORK ON DETROIT'S STREET.
OKAY, THAT'S COOL.
IT'S A IT'S A NICE IT'S A
OPTION.
I'VE SEEN IT IN OTHER PLACES
BUT I DON'T KNOW IF WE HAVE ANY
HERE.
UM THE OTHER THING I JUST AND
JUST THIS IS JUST SORT OF A
STATEMENT IS YOU KNOW WORKING
AS CLOSELY AS POSSIBLE WITH THE
MARKET AND IT SORT OF DOESN'T
MATTER WHO'S RIGHT OR WHOSE
RESPONSIBILITY IT IS IF THE
MARKET DOESN'T SUCCEED THAT'S
GOING TO BE REALLY BAD FOR YOUR
BUILDINGS.
>> SO I DO THINK WE ARE AT A
POINT WHERE IT'S THE MARKET IS
BOTH REALLY VIBRANT AND ALSO IN
TROUBLE.
AND SO I THINK THIS IS KIND
OF A CALL TO EVERYONE GO TO THE
MARKET.
>> IT'S OPEN ON WEDNESDAY AND
ON SATURDAY.
BUT ALSO IF YOU KNOW THERE IS
THERE IS STRUCTURED PARKING
VERY CLOSE BY TWO BLOCKS.
THERE IS A LOT OF BUT THAT'S
NOT THE WHAT PEOPLE ARE USED TO
DOING AND THE CONSTRUCTION IS
REALLY TOUGH ON PEOPLE AND I
KNOW I'VE HEARD A LOT OF PEOPLE
LIKE I USED TO GO BUT I DON'T
GO ANYMORE BECAUSE IT'S TOO
MUCH OF A PAIN AND WE REALLY
DON'T WANT TO GET IN THAT
SITUATION.
>> SO LIKE AS MUCH AS YOU CAN
DO TO PREVENT PEOPLE FROM
FEELING
THAT WAY FOR ANOTHER
TWO YEARS AND I KNOW IT'S NOT
JUST YOU THERE'S A LOT
OF CONSTRUCTION
GOING ON BUT
IT'S IT'S ONE OF THOSE THINGS
LIKE IT IT'S JUST IN
EVERYBODY'S BEST INTEREST TO
MAKE IT AS WORKABLE AS
POSSIBLE.
>> YEAH, I'M ONE OF THE THINGS
I SHARED WITH REMY IS A VIDEO
OF ME AT THE MARKET IN NINETEEN
SIXTY SIX SO I'M A LONG TIME
PATRON OF THE MARKET.
I UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
AND I JUST SAY THE SAME THING
TO STEPHANIE AND AS YOUNG THAT
I SAID TO TO PHYLLIS AS I GO
THEY'RE GOING TO BE DAYS YOU
DON'T LIKE ME BECAUSE THINGS
HAPPEN BUT I'LL TELL YOU I'LL
PICK UP THE PHONE AND WE'LL TRY
TO MAKE IT RIGHT.
RIGHT.
I CAN'T CONTROL ALL THOSE
INDIVIDUAL PEOPLE'S ACTIONS
BEFORE THEY DO THINGS BUT WE'LL
FIX IT AFTER RIGHT.
CHERYL'S FOLLOWING UP ON KIND
OF WHAT CAN BE DONE AND THE
PARKING PARTICULARLY THE MARKET
DAY IS THE SOLUTION THAT YOU
SUGGESTED THIS THIS OR THINGS
OF THAT ILK.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S POSSIBLE
BUT BECAUSE IT INVOLVES
COLLABORATION WITH CITY
DEPARTMENT AND BECAUSE WE HAVE
A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ANYWAY
I THINK TO THE EXTENT THE
EXTENT TO WHICH THAT CAN BE
INCLUDED WOULD BE REAL HELPFUL.
I THINK AGAIN THAT THERE'S
SOMETHING TO GO BACK TO THAT
WAS WE TALKED ABOUT DOING THIS
ON THE ON THE PARKING FOR
EXAMPLE ON MARKET DAYS.
I DON'T WE DON'T WE HAVEN'T
SEEN THAT THAT'S NOT PART
OF OUR PACKAGE.
THAT'S NOT REALLY OUR PURVIEW.
BUT I'M JUST SAYING LIKE I
DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S AN OPTION
OR A WAY TO PUT TEETH INTO IT
BUT I FEEL LIKE YOU WANT TO BE
SUCCESSFUL.
>> EVERYBODY WANTS THIS TO BE
SO AS THAT MIGHT JUST BE A
SUCCESSFUL.
MECHANISM FOR THAT, I'M GLAD
SO AS THAT MIGHT JUST BE A
THAT YOU HAVE TO RETURN BECAUSE
MECHANISM FOR THAT, I'M GLAD
I WAS CURIOUS TOO AND I'M
THAT YOU HAVE TO RETURN BECAUSE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT FROM THE
I WAS CURIOUS TOO AND I'M
SITE PLAN ALSO HOW THE BICYCLE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT FROM THE
PARKING WORKS AND IF THERE'S
SITE PLAN ALSO HOW THE BICYCLE
CURRENTLY BICYCLE PARKING IN
PARKING WORKS AND IF THERE'S
THAT LOCATION IN THIS BUILDING
CURRENTLY BICYCLE PARKING IN
OR LIKE IF IT FEELS LIKE IT'S
THAT LOCATION IN THIS BUILDING
IN THE BASEMENT AND I'M TRYING
OR LIKE IF IT FEELS LIKE IT'S
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOING DOWN A
IN THE BASEMENT AND I'M TRYING
HALF SET OF STAIRS.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOING DOWN A
>> HOW MANY DOORS ARE WE GOING
HALF SET OF STAIRS.
THROUGH?
>> HOW MANY DOORS ARE WE GOING
AND AGAIN, I AS A CYCLIST LIKE
THROUGH?
I WANT BIKE TO BE SUCCESSFUL
AND AGAIN, I AS A CYCLIST LIKE
AND IT'S THIS IS A PRIME REAL
I WANT BIKE TO BE SUCCESSFUL
ESTATE PLACE.
AND IT'S THIS IS A PRIME REAL
>> RIGHT.
ESTATE PLACE.
AND AND IT WOULD BE A SHAME TO
>> RIGHT.
DEVOTE A WHOLE BUNCH OF SPACE
AND AND IT WOULD BE A SHAME TO
IT'S NOT GOING TO GET USED TO
DEVOTE A WHOLE BUNCH OF SPACE
I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT
IT'S NOT GOING TO GET USED TO
THAT EXPERIENCE IS GOING TO BE
I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT
LIKE AND WHAT THOSE STAIRS ARE
THAT EXPERIENCE IS GOING TO BE
LIKE AND HOW PEOPLE ARE GOING
LIKE AND WHAT THOSE STAIRS ARE
TO NAVIGATE THAT DOOR WITH A
LIKE AND HOW PEOPLE ARE GOING
BICYCLE IF THERE'S ANOTHER WAY
TO NAVIGATE THAT DOOR WITH A
THAT RESIDENTS ARE GETTING INTO
BICYCLE IF THERE'S ANOTHER WAY
THAT BIG LOVELY BIKE ROOM.
THAT RESIDENTS ARE GETTING INTO
SO SO I THINK THE THE PLAN IS
THAT BIG LOVELY BIKE ROOM.
TO HAVE THEIR INDIVIDUAL
SO SO I THINK THE THE PLAN IS
STORAGE ROOMS FOR THE THE
TO HAVE THEIR INDIVIDUAL
RESIDENCE THAT WILL BE LARGE
STORAGE ROOMS FOR THE THE
ENOUGH TO HOUSE A BIKE I THINK
RESIDENCE THAT WILL BE LARGE
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE AND THERE
ENOUGH TO HOUSE A BIKE I THINK
JUST BE A DOOR I THINK TO THEM
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE AND THERE
INTO THAT MAIN STORAGE ROOM.
JUST BE A DOOR I THINK TO THEM
BUT I DON'T KNOW IF THAT
INTO THAT MAIN STORAGE ROOM.
CORRECT.
BUT I DON'T KNOW IF THAT
>> YEAH.
CORRECT.
SO SO WHAT I'M LOOKING AT IS ON
>> YEAH.
THE GROUND FLOOR THAT THOSE ARE
SO SO WHAT I'M LOOKING AT IS ON
ALL LIKE INDIVIDUAL STORAGE
THE GROUND FLOOR THAT THOSE ARE
UNITS AND THEY CAN CHOOSE TO
ALL LIKE INDIVIDUAL STORAGE
STORE A BIKE OR THEY CAN CHOOSE
UNITS AND THEY CAN CHOOSE TO
TO STORE THEIR HALLOWEEN
STORE A BIKE OR THEY CAN CHOOSE
DECORATIONS OR WHATEVER IT IS
TO STORE THEIR HALLOWEEN
THAT RIGHT OK YEP.
DECORATIONS OR WHATEVER IT IS
>> GOT IT
.
I WOULD SUGGEST SO AND IS THERE
THERE'S THE DOOR TO GET INTO IT
AND THEN FROM THE OUTSIDE OK IF
THEY'RE IN A STORE LIKE THEY'RE
GOING TO WANT TO USE IT AND
MAYBE IT'S A FANCY BIKE BUT
THEY WALK AWAY EVERY NIGHT LIKE
OTHERWISE FOR A QUICK TRIP IT'S
GOING TO GET PARKED OUT ON THE
STREET LIKE I HOPE WHICH THERE
ARE THOSE LOVELY CARROT WHOOPS
ACTUALLY QUITE LOVELY AND I
WANT THEM TO GET USED AND ALSO
AGAIN I'M JUST THINKING ABOUT
HOW PEOPLE WILL ACCESS IT.
>> SO IS THERE ANOTHER WAY FROM
THE STREET TO GET INTO THE
STORAGE LOCKER AREAS LIKE THEY
CAN GET OUT THROUGH THE
OVERHEAD DOOR TO RIGHT.
YEAH THROUGH THE GARAGE THERE'S
A OVERHEAD DOOR, THE SAME DOOR
THE CARS WOULD COME THROUGH.
>> THEY CAN GET OUT THAT WAY
TOO.
OK, AND DOES THAT REQUIRE
BAKING AGAIN?
I'M I'M LOOKING AT THIS LIKE
PLAN I'M ON PAGE 14 OF WHAT WAS
SUBMITTED.
>> CAN I CAN'T SEE WHERE THEY
GET FROM THAT GROUND LEVEL.
>> DO THEY HAVE TO GO UP THE
TUBE?
HOW ARE THEY GETTING ER THE THE
BASEMENT WITH THE BETTER OFF
THE TOP IS IT.
IT'S A HALF LIGHT DOWN.
YEAH THAT LEVEL YEAH IT'S A
HALF FLIGHT OF STAIRS I THINK
RIGHT THERE TO I'M SORRY I
DON'T HAVE THE PLANS IN FRONT
OF ME OR MEMORIZED OK YEAH NO
PROBLEM I'M JUST I SEE THE
GARAGE AREA I DON'T SEE WHERE
THERE IS OPENING FROM THE
GARAGE AREA TO THESE STORAGE
LOCKERS AREA.
>> YEAH AND THAT WOULD BE
CONVENIENT TO COME OUT THROUGH
THAT BECAUSE I'M ASSUMING YOU
GO DOWN A LITTLE BIT.
IS THAT HOW IT WORKS OR GET
AGAIN.
>> YEAH.
HOW IS THE ENTRANCE THERE BE A
HALF LIGHT DOWN AND A HALF
LIGHT UP BUT YEAH I DON'T WHICH
IS NO MORE IT'S NO MORE
CONVENIENT THAN COMING OUT LIKE
A DOOR
SO ESSENTIALLY SEE THE
RAMP AT ELEVATOR ACCESS FROM
THE THIS LEVEL HERE.
YEAH.
SO YOU TAKE YOUR BIKE IN
THROUGH THE TUNNEL LATER.
YEAH I TAKE IT UP HERE WELL
RIGHT YEAH I MEAN I GUESS
THERE'S NOT DIRECT FROM THE
FROM THE GARAGE TO DOWN TO THE
BIKE STORAGE BUT THERE IS
THROUGH THE ELEVATOR SO LIKE
YOU WOULD DO IT ON A PART
OF THE BUILDING A LOT OF PEOPLE
DO YOU TAKE YOUR BIKE IN THE
ELEVATOR IS A THREE 500 POUND
ELEVATOR WHICH MEANS IT'S
SUITABLE FOR A STRETCHER SO
IT'S PRETTY BIG.
>> YOU COULD GET TO TWO BIKES
IN THERE SO YOU COULD PULL IN
THROUGH THE OVERHEAD DOOR.
YOU'D HAVE A YOUR PHONE COULD
ACTUATE THESE DOORS.
YEAH, AND YOU WOULD PULL INTO
THE ELEVATOR.
IT'S GOT OPENINGS ON TWO SIDES.
GET YOUR BIKE IN THERE AND GO
UP TO THAT STORAGE LEVEL AND
THEN IN THROUGH A DOOR INTO THE
BICYCLE'S.
YOU GOT IT.
SO FROM THE GARAGE AREA I'M
SEEING THAT THERE'S LIKE NORTH
FACING DOOR THAT YOU GO INTO
THE NEW LOBBY AND THAT'S WHAT
THE ELEVATOR THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THAT THEY WOULD TAKE DOWN
LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO ENTER THE
GARAGE, GO SOUTH TO THE NEW
LOBBY AND THAT'S THE ELEVATOR.
>> YES.
OK, WHICH HAS DOORS ON BOTH
SIDES WHICH DOORS ON BOTH
SIDES.
YEAH.
AND THEN WHEN THEY THEY'RE
GOING TO GO DOWN THE LEVEL TO
THE STORAGE ROOM WINDOW ARE UP
AND THEN GOING OUT THAT DOOR.
>> YEAH OK I DON'T KNOW THAT
WOULD BE USED LIKE ANY MAYBE
SOME PEOPLE WILL I DON'T THINK
ON A DAY TO DAY BASIS AND SO
LIKE I THINK THAT THIS IS FINE
FOR BICYCLE STORAGE.
I I IN TERMS OF ACCESS I MEAN I
GET TO MEET ZIRKEL SO I DON'T
BUT AS WE HAVE BEEN THINKING
ABOUT THE LOCATION OF OUR BIKE
ROOMS AND KIND OF HOW
ACCESSIBLE THEY ARE, I PUT THIS
IN ONE WHERE LIKE I DON'T IT
ABSOLUTELY MEETS THE CODE .
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT IT MEETS
THE INTENT OF HOW WE ARE
THINKING ABOUT BIKE STORAGE FOR
RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES
NECESSARILY.
BUT I ALSO THINK THAT THIS IS A
PLACE THAT IS GOING TO BE
HIGHLY WALKABLE AND I HOPE THAT
THEY DON'T PULL THEIR CAR OUT
TOO OFTEN AND INSTEAD LIKE
THANK YOU FOR HELPING ME
UNDERSTAND HOW THAT IS.
>> YOU DON'T HAVE A BIKE ROOM
THERE NOW?
>> PROBABLY NOT, RIGHT?
NO, IT WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN
REQUIRED IF THIS BUILDING I
BELIEVE THAT THAT BUILDING'S
FORTY YEARS OLD.
>> IT DOES NOT LOOK THAT OLD.
RIGHT.
BUT IT WILL THANK YOU.
>> IT IS BUT IT'S WARM WEATHER
VERY WELL.
I MEAN I THINK THERE ARE PEOPLE
THAT HAVE USED BIKES BUT THEY
TAKE THEM TO THEIR OFFICES
THROUGH THE UPSTAIRS, THROUGH
THE ELEVATOR.
THERE'S NO DEDICATED BIKE ROOM
THERE IN THE BUILDING.
OK, NOW.
YEAH OK GREAT THANK YOU.
>> OK, DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS' COMMENTS ABOUT
THIS QUESTION BY THE WAY?
>> I KNOW I SAID IT I TALKED
BEFORE BUT I DO WANT TO SAY I
LOVE THIS PROJECT.
I THINK IT'S GREAT.
IT'S A WAY OF ADDING TO THE
HOUSING STOCK IN A GREAT
LOCATION AND IT'S PRETTY
EXCITING.
SO IN ADDITION TO ALL THE OTHER
THINGS.
>> THANK YOU.
UM, YEAH.
FROM MY STANDPOINT COMMISSIONER
THAN ANYTHING THAT I THINK A
LOT OF FOLKS ASK THE QUESTIONS
THAT I WAS PLANNING TO ASK ONE
THING I WANT TO JUST
CLARIFICATION YOU SAID PEEVEY
REDDY LIKE PHOTOVOLTAIC READY
FOR THE ROOF JUST BEING PUT IN
CONDUITS AND KIND OF LIKE THIS
STRUCTURE THAT'S NECESSARY.
WHAT EXTENT DO YOU THINK I'LL
TAKE IT TOO?
>> YEAH, JUST LIKE AGAIN ACROSS
THE STREET WE'RE GOING TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE HAVE A CONDUITS TO
THE SPACE BECAUSE AS YOU KNOW
TENDS TO BE A CHALLENGE AFTER
THE FACT IF YOU DON'T THINK
OF IT AHEAD OF TIME AND THEN
JUST MAKE SURE THAT THE
STRUCTURE IS CAPABLE
OF SUPPORTING IT.
>> YEAH, I GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
THE ONE THOUGHT THAT I HAD JUST
DONE THE GEOTHERMAL SIDE.
I JUST I WANT TO MAKE SURE I
UNDERSTAND CORRECTLY AS WELL.
SO THE GENERALLY THESE YOU HAVE
A VERTICAL LOOP HERE.
IT'S KIND OF GOT THIS LIKE
WHOLE MIXTURE AND EFFECTIVELY
IF YOU'RE COOLING SOMETHING
YOU'RE GOING TO GENERATE HEAT
SO YOU'RE BASICALLY CONNECTING
IT AT THE HEAT EXCHANGER TO
SEND THAT HEAT DOWN THROUGH THE
LOOP SORT OF DISSIPATES ON A
GEOTHERMAL BASIS AND SO
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER IT'S A
HUNDRED PERCENT COVERING OR NOT
LIKE I THINK IT STILL MAKES THE
SYSTEM A LOT MORE EFFICIENT.
AND SO FROM MY STANDPOINT I
THINK JUST IT'S SORRY TO HEAR
THAT ONE OF THE WELLS FAILED.
>> UNFORTUNATELY THAT'S
ACTUALLY BEEN MY QUESTION ABOUT
THE SIX HUNDRED FEET DEEP
THAT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S A LOT
OF STORIES.
TWELVE FEET ABOUT THE AVERAGE
STORY.
>> SO ALL
OF THAT SAID, I THINK
IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE GOING TO
BE USING THAT.
I'VE ALWAYS THOUGHT HAVING SOME
KIND OF A GEOTHERMAL GRID WOULD
BE GREAT TO BE ABLE TO
COORDINATE BETWEEN DIFFERENT
TYPES OF USES HOTELS,
COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL REQUIRES
COOLING.
>> REZAEE GENERALLY NEEDS
HEATING SO OVERALL I THINK
THAT'S GREAT AS FAR AS THE I
THINK STEPH DID A GREAT JOB IN
THE REVIEW CHART HEIGHT SIXTY
FEET ARTICULATION EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION BEFORE FOR 09
SETBACKS EVERYTHING SEEMS TO
COMPLY.
THIRTEEN E.V. INSTALLED BETTER
THAN WHAT WE ACTUALLY REQUIRE.
SO BY THAT I'M SUPPORTIVE
OF THE OVERALL PROJECT SO ANY
OTHER THOUGHTS BEFORE WE MOVE
TO A FORMAL VOTE AND PLEASE DO
NOTE THIS REQUIRES A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WHICH
GENERALLY GETS APPROVAL THE
CITY COUNCIL HOWEVER THE SITE
PLANNING APPROVAL IS HERE SO
THIS IS THE MOTION TO APPROVE
WITH THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
THAT ADVANCES THE COUNCIL FOR
THE ALTHOUGH I DON'T SEE THEM
SAYING NO TO TEN THOUSAND
DOLLARS BUT OK, LET'S MOVE TO A
ROLL CALL VOTE COMMISSIONER
NORTON.
>> YES COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE YES COMMISSIONER
MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER APRON'S YES.
>> COMMISSIONER WISCH YES
COMMISSIONER.
>> YES.
>> THAT CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
GOOD LUCK WITH THE CONSTRUCTION
AND AND AND PLEASE DO TRY TO
COORDINATE COMMERCIALLY
REASONABLE EFFORTS TO SUPPORT
OUR MARKET.
PLEASE TAKE CARE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OK, WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
ITEM NUMBER B THIS IS A SIX
THIRTY S ASHLEY STREET SIDE
PLAN FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSED SITE PLAN TO
CONSTRUCT TWO SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES WITH A GARAGE BETWEEN
THEM PLUS A DETACHED GARAGE
WITH THE SECOND STORY
RESIDENTIAL UNIT.
THE FORMER ARMIN'S CLEANER SITE
IS ZERO POINT ONE SEVEN ACRES
CURRENTLY VACANT AS IS
CURRENTLY IN DC TO BE BUSINESS
SERVICE DISTRICT AND THEN ALSO
THE OLD SITE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THE PROJECT HAS RECEIVED
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
APPROVAL AND VARIANCES FROM THE
ZIBA THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
WITH THAT WE HAVE PRESENTER'S
MARK WATER AND ACTUALLY A VERY
SIMILAR TEAM THAT WE JUST HEARD
FROM AND THEN ALSO WITH THIS
FROM THE CON ENGINEERING.
SO WE'LL GO WITH PETITION
PRESENTATION.
>> WELCOME BACK.
I MARGUERITA HERE AGAIN AND
CATHY KINASES ALSO THE ENGINEER
ON THIS PROJECT AND IF THEIR
SITE PLANNING QUESTIONS I HOPE
SHE'S AVAILABLE.
SHE SAID SHE WOULD BE SO WE'LL
ADDRESS IT ON SITE SPECIFIC
ENGINEERING SITE PLANNING
ISSUES OR HER I DON'T HAVE ANY
SLIDE PRESENTATION TONIGHT BUT
THIS IS A BUILDING THAT WE'VE
BEEN WORKING ON FOR ALMOST
THREE YEARS FROM THE START
OF WHEN THE SITE WAS STARTED TO
BE CLEANED UP BY THE STATE.
WE STARTED WORKING WITH THE
STATE DISTRICT COMMISSION TO
DECIDE WHAT SHOULD GO ON HERE.
SO WE HAD TWO OR THREE
DIFFERENT SCENARIOS FOR
DENSITIES.
WE LOOKED AT FOUR STOREYS.
WE LOOKED AT FOUR UNITS WHICH
HAD PARKING UNDERNEATH THE
BUILDING WHICH RAISED IT.
SO THESE SORT OF ITERATIONS
WITH THE STRAIGHT DISTRICT
COMMISSION SEEM TO NOT FIT
THEIR IDEAS ABOUT WHAT THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD SHOULD BE AND
WANTED LOWER DENSITY.
SO WE CAME UP WITH A SOLUTION
IN WHICH WE BASICALLY HAVE A
DUPLEX AND ONE OF THOSE HOUSING
UNITS HAS AN 82 ABOVE THE
GARAGE ATTACHED TO IT.
SO THE DWELLING UNITS ARE
SEPARATED BY GARAGE WHICH MAKES
FOR GREAT ACOUSTICS SEPARATION
AND THE ACTU IS QUITE A WAYS
OFF TO THIS SIDE OF THAT.
SO THE ACTU IS A NICE SIZE UNIT
ONE BEDROOM BUT FIVE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY FIVE SQUARE FEET AND
IT WILL BELONG TO THE UNIT THAT
IS CLOSEST TO THE SOUTH.
THEY'RE AND THE OTHER UNIT
THEY'RE BOTH ROUGHLY TWENTY
FIVE HUNDRED FIFTY TWENTY SIX
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET A PIECE THE
80S FIVE HUNDRED THIRTY FIVE
SQUARE ONE OF THE THINGS ON THE
SITE PLAN THAT I LOOKED AT
DOING IS AND WHAT WE'VE BEEN
DOING HOUSING IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE FOR MORE YEARS.
I WANT TO SAY BUT OVER MANY
PROJECTS AND WHEN WE DO
GARAGE'S WE FIND OUT THAT IF
IT'S A ONE CAR GARAGE THERE'S
NO THERE NO CARS IN THE ONE CAR
GARAGE, THEIR BIKES AND
STROLLERS AND ALL KINDS
OF HOUSEHOLD STUFF.
SO WE SORT OF ENVISIONED IN
THIS PROJECT WITH A TWO CAR
GARAGE THERE MAY BE NO CARS
THERE.
THERE MAY BE ONE CAR IN THAT
GARAGE AND THE REST THE OTHER
SIDE WILL BE BIKES AND STROLLER
AND ALL KINDS OF OTHER THINGS.
SO THAT'S WHY I'VE DECIDED I
WANTED TO NARROW THE IMPACT
OF THE DRIVEWAY CURB CUTS.
SO THAT'S WHY THE CURB CUTS ARE
NARROW AND AT THE STREET AND
THEY ARE I CAN'T REMEMBER
EXACTLY BUT THEY'RE ABOUT 13
FEET WIDE OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT I THINK SO THAT THEY'RE
SORT OF THEY'RE NOT A FULL
TWENTY FOOT TWENTY TWO FEET
WIDE THAT WOULD BE REQUIRED IF
YOU WERE BACKING CARS OUT
OF THERE.
SO THAT REDUCES THE AUTO IMPACT
ON THE STREET.
JUST WANTED TO POINT THAT OUT.
THE OTHER THING WHEN THIS WAS
ALMONDS CLEANERS THEY BASICALLY
HAD PAVED THE ENTIRE SITE
EXCEPT FOR A SMALL BRANCH AREA
SO IMPERVIOUS AREA WAS VERY,
VERY LITTLE AND WE'RE ENDING UP
HERE WITH CAN'T REMEMBER MAYBE
CATHY REMEMBERS WHAT THE GROUND
COVERAGE WAS HERE.
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED SHE COULD
CHIME IN ON THAT.
BUT WE'VE DRASTICALLY REDUCED
THE IMPERMEABLE AREA ON THE
SITE FROM WHAT IT USED TO BE.
BUT YET WE'RE STILL TAKING CARE
OF THE STORMWATER AND THE
DISCHARGE FROM THE SOME PUMPS
WILL BE HANDLED ON SITE SO THAT
THAT HAS BEEN TAKEN CARE OF IN
THE BUILDINGS.
>> ARE WE SET TO DESIGN A KIND
OF A COMMERCIAL STYLE BUILDING
WHICH IS FLAT ROOF AND KIND
OF IN KEEPING WITH THE
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF THE STREET AND
THE LARGE APARTMENT BUILDING TO
THE EAST SO SO THAT HAS A MORE
OF A COMMERCIAL FEEL BUT YET IT
HAS THE SCALE AND CHARACTER
OF A RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THAT PART
OF OUR PRESENTATION WHERE WE
SUPERIMPOSE THE SITE PLAN ON
THE NEIGHBORHOOD, IT'S PRETTY
OBVIOUS THAT IT'S IT'S QUITE A
SMALL DEVELOPMENT COMPARED TO
THE HOUSES AROUND IT.
SO THAT'S THAT'S BASICALLY OUR
APPROACH IN THIS PROJECT.
AND IF YOU HAVE I'LL BE HERE TO
ANSWER ANY OTHER QUESTIONS AND
IF YOU HAVE ENGINEERING
QUESTIONS YOU GET CATHY TO
ANSWER THOSE.
ALL RIGHT.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
WITH THAT WE WERE GOING TO
STAFF PRESENTATION WITH CITY
PLANNER MELANIE CORCORAN.
>> THANK YOU AND THANK YOU TO
THE PETITIONER.
SO THIS IS A SIGHT AT THE
CORNER OF SOUTH ASHLEY STREET
AND WEST MOSELEY'S STREET.
AS MENTIONED, IT IS CURRENTLY
VACANT BECAUSE IT WAS
PREVIOUSLY THE SITE OF URBAN
CLEANERS.
THE DEMOLITION OF THAT BUILDING
WAS APPROVED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE AND SINCE THEN THE
STATE HAS DONE ENVIRONMENTAL
CONTAMINATION REMEDIATION ON
SITE.
AS MENTIONED, THERE ARE THREE
NEW RESIDENTIAL UNITS IN TWO
GARAGES ON SITE TWO SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES THAT WILL FRONT
ASHELY STREET AND THEN A GARAGE
WITH A SECOND STORY UNIT
FRONTING MOSELY STREET.
>> THERE WILL BE THE EXISTING
KATSAS ONE ON MOSLEY AND ONE ON
ASHLI AND THEY'LL BE SHIFTED A
LITTLE BIT TO ACCOMMODATE THESE
GARAGES.
>> IT IS IN THE SITE HISTORIC
DISTRICT AND THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION GRANTED A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
IN OCTOBER OF TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR.
THE PROJECT ALSO WENT TO THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS FOR THE
RARE SETBACK AND REQUIRED
BUFFER BECAUSE EVEN THOUGH THIS
IS A RESIDENTIAL USE IT'S C TO
BE A BUSINESS DISTRICT ZONING
ADJACENT A RESIDENTIAL USE IT
DOES REQUIRE EXTRA BUFFER BUT
THOSE THOSE VARIANCES WERE
GRANTED BY THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS IN TERMS
OF SUSTAINABILITY PER APPLICANT
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT.
THERE ARE NO ADDITIONAL
SUSTAINABILITY MEASURES
INCLUDED BEYOND THE
CODE REQUIREMENTS LIKE
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND A
NOTE FROM OUR STORMWATER
REVIEWER THE SITE STORMWATER
AND FLOODING DRAIN WATER IS
MANAGED AS DIRECTED BY THE
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF THE
ENVIRONMENT, GREAT LAKES AND
ENERGY EGAL BECAUSE OF THE
CONCERNS WITH THE FORMER
CONTAMINATION ON SITE THERE
WILL BE I SAID TWO GARAGES
THERE'LL BE ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CAPABLE AND ELECTRIC VEHICLE
INSTALLED SPACES AND THERE'S NO
DEDECKER ADDED BIKE PARKING.
IT'LL BE INCLUDED IN THE
GARAGES AND THAT IS FINE WITH
THE ZONING AND I THINK THAT'S
ALL I HAVE FOR RIGHT NOW.
>> THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK AT THE
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE THE RIGHT HAND
FEATURE AND ZOOM IN FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
PLEASE.
ALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND UNDER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME ON ZOOM
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE ENSURE
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA.
ANY BACKGROUND NOISE SO WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO'D LIKE
TO SPEAK THAT'S PRESENT HERE
NOW
.
HELLO MR CARTER.
MY APOLOGIES.
NO NEED TO APOLOGIZE I I
THINK
I HAVE SOME KIND OF AUTISM
SPECTRUM DISORDER WHERE I NEED
YOUR ATTENTION FOR CERTAIN
AMOUNT OF HOURS A DAY BUT IN
FACT I HAVE NOT RESEARCHED THIS
PROJECT BUT I'M AWARE IT WAS A
HIGHLY CONTAMINATED SITE SO I'M
GLAD TO SEE IT REPURPOSED AFTER
CLEAN UP INTO RESIDENTIAL USE.
BUT YOU JUST HEARD FROM THAT
WHERE THERE ARE NO SUSTAINABLE
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES BEYOND
THOSE REQUIRED BY CODE .
MAYBE I SPOKE TOO SOON IN MY
EARLIER COMMENTS ABOUT HOW
WE'VE WON ELECTRIFICATION
BATTLE WHEN WE JUST HEARD THAT
THREE OR THREE DETROIT IS GOING
TO BE USING GAS PROBABLY FOR
MOST OF THAT HEAT MOST THAT
PROJECT AND PRESUMABLY THIS ONE
TOO.
IT'S A SMALL PROJECT I'M NOT
SAYING THIS IS GOING TO BE THE
TIPPING POINT FOR THE GLOBAL
CLIMATE BUT EVERY POUND OF CO2
HELPS.
WE'VE ALL GOT TO ESPECIALLY NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
THESE THINGS ARE GOING TO BE
EMITTING FOR DECADES AND SO,
YOU KNOW, SOURCE OF ELECTRIC
HEAT PUMPS ARE PRETTY STANDARD.
THE HIGH EFFICIENCY ONES WORK
IN OUR CLIMATE THAT'S BEEN
SHOWN.
YOU'VE HEARD IT AT THIS TABLE
MULTIPLE TIMES.
SO I'D LIKE TO SEE MORE OUT
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT IN THAT
REGARD.
YOU KNOW, ROOFTOP SOLAR DOESN'T
SEEM UNREASONABLE.
AGAIN, NEW CONSTRUCTION
OTHERWISE.
>> YEAH, I'M IT'S DISCOURAGING
AT THIS STAGE OF THE ZERO PLAN
THE CLIMATE CRISIS PEOPLE ARE
STILL PUTTING IN FOSSIL FUEL
INFRASTRUCTURE BUILDINGS, NEW
BUILDINGS.
IT'S GOING TO BE A HUGE EFFORT
JUST TO RENOVATE AND REFIT OUR
EXISTING HOUSING STOCK AND
BUILDING STOCK WHICH WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO DO.
IT'S NOT ME TALKING.
IT'S IT'S THE CLIMATE SCIENCE.
IT'S THE CARBON BUDGETS ARE YOU
KNOW, RICH COUNTRIES ARE REALLY
GOING HAVE TO GO NOT JUST A NET
ZERO BUT A TRUE ZERO AND BY THE
MIDDLE OF THE NEXT DECADE
REALLY I THINK BASED ON THE
DATA I'VE READ WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE A LIVABLE CLIMATE.
SO NOT TO PUT THE WHOLE ONUS ON
A TINY DEVELOPMENT LIKE THIS
BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S TOO MUCH
TO ASK THAT THEY LOOK INTO HIGH
PERFORMANCE HEAT PUMPS AND SOME
SOLAR PANELS AND AND GET ON
BOARD WITH THIS BECAUSE WE ALL
HAVE TO WE ALL HAVE TO TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS PROBLEM
.
THAT'S MY RANT FOR THE DAY.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER, DO WE HAVE ANYONE
ELSE PRESENT?
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
.
OK, DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
CALLERS?
>> OK, I'LL GIVE IT A FEW MORE
SECONDS
.
>> OK WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE INTO THE
MOTION WHICH IS THAT THE NRA
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
APPROVES A SIX THIRTY S ASHLEY
STREET SITE PLAN REVISION3
DATED APRIL TWENTY FIFTH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WHITESON SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION.
I'D LIKE TO KICK US OFF
COMMISSIONER MILLS I'M CURIOUS
FOR STAFF HOW THIS IS A PUBLIC
HEARING.
>> YES THAT IS BECAUSE OF THE
ZONING AND EVEN THOUGH IT'S
SINGLE FAMILY IF IT'S NOT
RESIDENTIAL ZONING THEN IT HAS
TO COME THE PLANNING COMMISSION
OK, PER THE SITE PLAN TABLE GOT
IT ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OK, COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
YEAH.
I'LL JUST SAY EVEN THOUGH
PROBABLY WE SHOULDN'T TAKE UP
TOO MUCH TIME ON THIS BUT THIS
IS THE THIRD TIME I VOTED ON IT
AS A MEMBER OF THE CBA BECAUSE
IT CAME TO ZIBA TWICE AND IT IS
FAR BETTER THAN WHAT WAS THERE
AND THAT'S WHAT I'M KIND
OF TRYING TO FOCUS ON.
BUT IT IS A REALLY GOOD LESSON
FOR THE PLAN OF LIKE THIS IS
REALLY CONSTRAINED BY OUR
ZONING AND COULD BE A LOT MORE
AND YOU KNOW, DECISIONS WERE
MADE IN THE PAST ON A LOT
OF BASIS FOR YOU KNOW, THERE IS
HISTORIC CONTAMINATION.
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT THERE'S
OUR ZONING IT JUST FEELS LIKE
WE COULD DO A LOT WITH THIS
EMPTY SITE.
THERE AREN'T A WHOLE LOT
OF EMPTY SITES AND I'M GLAD
THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE THREE
DWELLING UNITS OR TWO DWELLING
UNITS IN ONE 888 BUT IT IT JUST
TO ME IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF LIKE
LIKE WE COULD HAVE THIS IS A
SITE WE COULD HAVE HAD MORE BUT
HOPEFULLY HOPEFULLY THIS WILL
BE A GOOD LESSON.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS?
YEAH.
COMMISSIONER NORTON, JUST OUT
OF CURIOSITY, I DON'T KNOW IF
THIS IS FOR YOU OR FOR STAFF.
I'M CURIOUS WAS ALL OF THE
CONTAMINATION CLEANED UP OR IS
THERE STILL SOME RESIDUAL
CONTAMINATION THERE?
>> AND YOU KNOW, AS FAR AS I
KNOW IT'S ALL BEEN CLEANED UP
AND WE'VE OUR VIEWERS LOOK AT
IT AND REVIEWERS FROM GOOGLE
LOOK AT IT AND SAY THAT THEY
CAN GO FORWARD WITH THIS.
SO I ASSUME THAT MEANS WE'RE
ALL GOOD BUT THEY'RE STILL
MANAGING THE STORMWATER BECAUSE
THEY'RE WORRIED ABOUT MAYBE
SOMETHING SHOWING UP.
>> YEAH, THEY GAVE COMMENTS ON
THE SYSTEM, THE STORMWATER
SYSTEM.
>> SO I GUESS PRECAUTIONARY.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS
?
OK, I THINK THIS ONE IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
I SUPPOSE THE ONE QUESTION THAT
I WOULD HAVE IS TO GIVE
CREDENCE TO MR. GARBER'S
COMMENTS.
ARE THERE ANY SUSTAINABILITY
THOUGHTS WITH RESPECT TO THIS
PARTICULAR PROPERTY?
ARE YOU PLANNING ON USING
EXCUSE ME, I DIDN'T QUITE HEAR
YOUR QUESTION.
>> SURE.
COULD YOU LET US KNOW ABOUT
WHAT TYPE OF ADRAC THAT YOU'RE
PLANNING JUST BASED PUBLIC
COMMENT WHAT KIND OF GARBAGE
HVA ARE YOU GUYS PLANNING ON A
HEAT PUMP ETC. IT'S JUST A THIS
DOESN'T IMPACT THE OVERALL
DECISION.
THAT'S JUST RIGHT BY MY
CURIOSITY THE OWNER WHO COULD
NOT BE HERE TONIGHT COULD
BITTORRENT'S THAT AS TO WHY
HE'S CHOSEN THIS SORT OF SYSTEM
WILL POINT OUT THAT THE NEW
ENERGY CODES WE ARE DESIGNING
THE WHOLE BUILDING BASED ON THE
NEW ENERGY CODES WHICH ARE
QUITE QUITE A LOT IMPROVED OVER
WHAT THEY USED TO BE ARE SIXTY
CEILINGS VERSUS OUR FORTY
INSULATION ON THE EXTERIOR
SIDES OF THE WALLS FULLY
INSULATED BASEMENT WHICH MIGHT
EVEN BE A IF OR INSULATED
CONCRETE FOUNDATION SYSTEM.
THEY'RE BEGINNING TO COMPETE
NOW BECAUSE OF ALL THE EXPENSE
AND IN DOING OTHER ALTERNATIVES
FOR BASEMENT INSULATION.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT ALL
OF THESE AND PLUS THE
CONFIGURATION THAT WE HAVE, WE
HAVE ABOUT A AN ENVELOPE TO
FLOOR AREA RATIO OF TEN TO ONE
WHICH IS ALMOST LIKE A CUBE OR
IS A CUBE IS TEN TO ONE SO YOU
CAN'T GET ANYTHING MORE
EFFICIENT FOR AN ENVELOPE THAN
WHAT THESE BUILDINGS ARE SORT
OF PROPOSING.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT THAT, THE
ENERGY LOSS IN THIS ENTIRE
BUILDING WILL BE QUITE LOW AND
I THINK HE'S OPTED TO GO WITH A
TRADITIONAL TRACK SYSTEMS FOR
THOSE REASONS WE CAN WE WILL DO
WE DO HAVE ROOF ROOM ON THE
ROOF FOR SOLAR CELLS AND SINCE
THESE WILL BE INDIVIDUALLY
OWNED BUILDING, THOSE OWNERS
WILL CERTAINLY HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PUT THEM ON TOP
OF THE AIDOO OR ON TOP OF EACH
OTHER UNITS.
SO THAT FULLY ANSWERED YOUR
QUESTION BUT THAT WOULD BE A
SWEET SPOT.
BUT THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE ON TO THE VOTE.
I'M GOING TO REREAD THE MOTION.
THIS IS AN URBAN CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES THE
SIX SASE STREET SITE PLAN DATED
TWENTY FIVE POINT TWENTY FIVE.
AGAIN, THIS IS A SITE PLAN
APPROVAL WHICH ENDS HERE.
SO WITH THAT WE ARE GOING TO
VOTE KELLY
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE YES COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
>> YES, COMMISSIONER APRON'S
YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER LEA YES.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
THANK YOU.
HAVE A GOOD EVENING.
WE'RE GOING TO RIGHT ON TO
SECTION NINE C THIS IS SIX TO
FIVE CHURCH STREET IS THE
PROPOSED SITE PLAN TO REDEVELOP
SIX TO ONE CHURCH STREET SIX TO
FIVE AND SIX THIRTY THREE
CHURCH STREET AS WELL AS TWELVE
SEVEN WILLARD STREET PLUS AN
AREA EXTENDING OVER SIX ONE SIX
S FOR US TO CONSTRUCT A 20
STORY APARTMENT BUILDING
APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED
EIGHTY UNITS TWO HUNDRED EIGHTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OF FLOOR
AREA AND ONE HUNDRED NINETY
FIVE FEET IN HEIGHT IS SIXTEEN
THOUSAND FIFTY TWO SQUARE FEET
AND IS IN D ONE DOWNTOWN CORE
BASED ZONING DISTRICT S
UNIVERSITY CHARACTER OVERLAY
DISTRICT AND SECONDARY STREET
TYPE DESIGNATION.
>> WE HAVE PRESENTERS READ MORE
OF THAT MORE ARCHITECTS SCOTT
FROM MIDWESTERN AS WELL AS
ANDREW SAVOY OF COURSE SPACES
AND JOHN HOFFMAN FROM DALLAS.
>> WELCOME.
ALL RIGHT.
WE START WITH THE PRESENTATION
FROM THE PETITIONERS AND WE'LL
GO ON TO STAFF.
>> MIGHT JUST NEED A MOMENT,
MR. CHAIR, TO ARRANGE THE
PRESENTATION AS GOOD AS I CAN.
>> WE WILL TAKE A ONE MINUTE
RECESS.
THANK YOU.
GOOD BREAK
.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE BACK.
WELCOME.
THANK THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
SLIGHT DOWNGRADE TODAY FROM
ANDY SAVOY.
HE WASN'T ABLE TO MAKE IT SO
I'M JOE GADO FROM AIRSPACES.
THIS IS OUR DEVELOPMENT
CO DEVELOPMENT PARTNER JARED
CHANK WITH CHANK PLUS.
SO WE'LL BE PRESENTING ON
BEHALF OF THE DEVELOPMENT
COMPANY TONIGHT.
I DID HAVE THE DISTINCT
PLEASURE OF PRESENTING IN FRONT
OF YOU ALL ABOUT A YEAR AND A
HALF AGO FOR THREE THROUGH
THREE WILLIAM SO PLEASURE TO BE
BACK AND THANKFUL FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK IN FRONT
OF YOU AND JOHN I'M SORRY THIS
IS OUR DISTINGUISHED ARCHITECT
FROM OUR GROUP, JOHN HOFFMAN.
PLEASURE TO BE HERE.
WE'RE GOING TO BREEZE THROUGH
SOME OF THE ABOUT US.
WE'RE HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS TO THE EXTENT YOU'D
LIKE US TO AT THE END.
I THINK WE'VE GONE UP HERE A
FEW TIMES AND JUST DON'T WANT
TO WASTE YOUR TIME AND THOSE
LISTENING IN.
SO A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE SITE
IT IS FOR PARCEL'S BOUNDED BY
WILLARD STREET AND CHURCH
STREET AND THERE IS A CITY
OWNED PARCEL THAT LOOKS AND
FEELS LIKE AN ALLEY WAS
TECHNICALLY A CITY ON PASSELL
THAT IS RUNNING THROUGH THE
MIDDLE OF THE BLOCK BETWEEN
UNIVERSITY FOREST CHURCH AND
WILLARD.
SO THE SITE IS HIGHLIGHTED IN
PURPLE AND WHITE AND THE WHITE
PORTION IS DISTINCTLY COLORED
BECAUSE IT IS A AIR RIGHTS
PARCEL.
SO WE'RE ACTUALLY BUYING THE
AIR RIGHTS OVER A CITY OWNED
PARCEL CITY COUNCIL VOTED TO
APPROVE THAT A FEW WEEKS BACK
AND SO YOU KNOW, THAT IS GOING
TO BE INCORPORATED INTO THE
BUILDING YOU'RE LOOKING AT HERE
TODAY.
IT MIGHT COME BACK TO THAT IF
NECESSARY LATER.
SO JUST A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
BUILDING I THINK IT WAS
HIGHLIGHTED PREVIOUSLY AS WELL.
BUT YOU'RE NINETEEN STOREYS ONE
HUNDRED NINETY FIVE FEET TALL.
ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY EIGHT
UNITS DUE TO THIS IMPECCABLE
LOCATION FOR THE LIKELY RENTERS
WE CHOSE NOT TO BUILD ANY
PARKING WHICH REDUCES CURB CUTS
FROM WHAT WE'LL GET INTO HOW
MANY DOWN TO WHAT WE GOT IT
DOWN TO ZERO EFFECTIVELY AT A
LATER SLIDE BUT ALSO IT'S GOING
TO BE PRETTY COOL ARCHITECTURE
,COOL EXPERIENCE WITH A
CANTILEVERED BUILDING OVER THAT
CITY OWNED PARCEL AND CREATING
A PRETTY SPECIAL ALLEYWAY IN
THIS PART OF THE COMMUNITY.
WE EXPECT TO BREAK GROUND NEAR
THE END OF THIS YEAR IF NOT
SOONER THAN WE PUT DECEMBER
TWENTY FIFTH HERE TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE MAY BREAK GROUND EVEN
SOONER THAT AND DELIVERING IN
TIME FOR THE SUMMER OF TWENTY
TWENTY EIGHT ACTUALLY ON A SO
AS JOE ALLUDED TO WE'RE
REDUCING THE NUMBER OF CURB
CUTS FROM FOUR TO IN ESSENCE
ONE WITH THE CITY STREET
RUNNING THROUGH WE'RE GOING TO
CONVERT YOU KNOW REALLY THE THE
ROADWAY CONNECTING CHURCH TO
FOR US.
WE REALLY WANT IT TO BE MORE
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE.
WE'RE WORKING WITH THE CITY ON
THAT.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO GO
KERBEROS TO MAKE THE FEEL IS A
FLOW THROUGH THE PEDESTRIAN
FLOW THROUGH HAPPENS AND WE
THINK WE'RE PUTTING IN SEVEN
NEW STREET TREES ALONG THE AND
WE'RE IMPROVING.
AS YOU CAN SEE IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO US TO FOCUS NOT
JUST ON CHURCH BUT AS CARRYING
AROUND WILLARD WHICH I LIVED ON
.
THIS IS NOW PROBABLY THIRTY
YEARS AGO BUT SO IT'S A VERY
NEAR AND DEAR TO OUR HEARTS
OF COURSE.
>> SO NOW WE'RE GETTING INTO
THE BUILDING AND WE'RE GOING TO
START FROM THE BOTTOM UP THE
BASEMENT LEVEL HERE WILL HAVE
ROUGHLY SEVEN THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET OF RETAIL WHICH WILL BE
ACCESSIBLE THROUGH TWO
DIFFERENT STAIRWELLS AND A
DEDICATED ELEVATOR BANK THAT
WILL BE ACCESSIBLE AT THE
GROUND LEVEL OFF OF CHURCH
STREET AND THE ALLEYWAY OR THE
CITY PARCEL THAT LOOKS LIKE AN
ALLEYWAY.
I'VE BEEN I'VE BEEN TAUGHT NOT
TO AN ALLEY BECAUSE IT'S NOT SO
LOW ON IT'S A LOW LEVEL ONE.
YOU CAN SEE WE FOCUSED ON
HAVING THE MID BLOCK ENTRY
WHICH WERE REALLY WHICH WILL BE
A GREAT EXPERIENCE WITH THE TWO
STOREY SPACE COMING INTO THE
ENTRYWAY.
WE HAVE AMENITIES LINKING
CLOSER TO THE WILLARD SIDE
AGAIN THEY'LL BE A LOT
OF STREET ACTIVATION AS YOU
SORT OF FEEL THE STREET YOU'RE
WALKING DOWN THERE YOU'RE NOT
GOING HAVE SORT OF A BLANK WALL
EXPERIENCE A LOT OF GLASS AND
THEN THE RETAIL AS YOU SEE IN
THE UPPER RIGHT QUADRANT I'M
FACING IT ON THE ON THE PUBLIC
RIGHT AWAY TRASH COLLECTION IS
IN THE BACK.
WE'VE COORDINATED WITH OUR
OTHER USERS AND THEN THE PART
OF THE TRASH COLLECTIONS ON OUR
PROPERTY AND ALSO ON THE CITY
ON MOTT SO ON PARKWAY AND WE
HAVE OUR BIKE ROOM IN THE BACK
QUADRANT WE HAVE TWO THIRDS
OF OUR BIKE SPACES WHICH ARE
EASILY ACCESSIBLE.
I THINK WE MADE IT SO YOU CAN
BASICALLY GET IT OFF THE GROUND
AND SO THAT YOU COULD PARK IT
WITH TWO WHEELS ON THE GROUND,
WHEELS ON THE GROUND SO IT'S
EASIER FOR PEOPLE TO NOT HAVE
TO LIFT UP AND THEN WE HAVE
ACCESS ALONG THE BACK SO WE'RE
NOT IT GIVES THEM A BETTER USE
EXPERIENCE COMING FOR WILL OR
THEY'LL COME DOWN RIGHT BY THE
GARAGE NEXT TO OUR PROPERTY AND
ACCESS FROM THAT AREA AND
THERE'LL BE AN AUTOMATIC DOOR
OPENER.
THEY'RE LOCATED THERE.
SO IT'S GOING BE A VERY BIKE
CENTRIC BIKE FOCUSED ENTRANCE.
YOU KNOW, AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO
COME THROUGH THE LOBBY AND
INTERMINGLE WITH YOUR PEOPLE
WHO ARE, YOU KNOW, LOUNGING IN
THE RESIDENTIAL LOBBY AND WE
THE OPENER FOR THE BIKE ROOM
ITSELF.
YES.
YEAH.
JUST A LITTLE BIT MORE.
YOU KNOW, DIAGRAM ON THE BIKE
ROOM IN PARTICULAR.
YOU KNOW, I THINK JARED ALLUDED
TO, YOU KNOW, EFFECTIVELY WHAT
THIS SLIDE IS SAYING AND JUST
SHOWING IN GREATER DETAIL THIS
IS THE SECOND LEVEL WHICH WILL
BE THE THE TOP LEVEL THE STREET
WALL.
SO WE'RE GOING TO STOREYS UP
WITH THE STREET WALL AND SO
WHEN WE SEE THE RENDERINGS
LATER THIS IS WHERE OUR BRICK
EXPRESSION IS REALLY YOU KNOW,
PROMINENT PROMINENT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT THREE WALL.
AND SO WE HAVE RESIDENTIAL
AMENITIES ALONG CHURCH STREET
AND THEN ALSO SOME RESIDENTIAL
UNITS FACING CHURCH STREET AS
WELL AS WILLARD TO THE SOUTH
PLAN PLAN LEFT JUST A TYPICAL
FLOOR AS WE GO UP YOU CAN NOTE
HOW THE BUILDING GROWS AS THE
AIR RIGHTS NOW GET PICKED UP.
>> IF YOU DON'T MIND.
SO THIS IS OUR TOP FLOOR
OF SPACE WE'LL TALK ABOUT IN A
SECOND.
BUT WE MENTIONED IN THE HEIGHT
OF THE BUILDING 190 FEET WE'RE
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF A COUPLE
OF BONUSES YOU'LL SEE ON THE
SLIDE AFTER THIS ACTUALLY
WORKING FOR THE NEXT DAY TWO
YOU'LL SEE WHERE OUR SOLAR
PANELS ARE.
AND SO WE'RE WE'RE COMPLYING
WITH THAT TO GET THE PART
OF THE BONUS IN ADDITION OR AN
ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING TO FOLLOW
THAT OUT WHICH GETS US THE FULL
BONUS TO ONE NINETY FIVE GOING
BACK A PAGE MINUS THIS IS THE
EXPERIENCE YOU'RE WALKING
THROUGH SOLAR PANELS ON TOP.
YEAH.
AND SO WE HAVE OUR YOU KNOW OUR
POOL OUR POOL AMENITY UP TOP
AND WE'RE YOU KNOW WE'RE TRYING
TO CREATE AN ENGAGING
ENVIRONMENT.
IT'S YOU KNOW FOR THE STUDENTS
NOT ONLY ON THE FIRST AND
SECOND FLOOR BUT ON THE TOP
FLOOR WITH OBVIOUSLY THE
RESIDENTIAL COME ON AT BETWEEN
TWO JUST THE SECTION IN
HIGHLIGHTING THE THE BONUSES
TAKEN AND HOW THE BONUSES ARE
BROKEN DOWN TO THE FUN STUFF.
SO THIS IS THE VIEW FACING OUR
MAIN ENTRANCE ALONG CHURCH
STREET SO EFFECTIVELY ACROSS
THE STREET AT THE PENTHOUSE
FACING EAST.
SO THIS IS A MID BLOCK ENTRANCE
REALLY PROMINENT.
YOU CAN SEE A TON OF BRICK
DETAILING WITH A LOT
OF GLAZING.
SO WE HAVE SOME CABLING THAT
GOES UP TO THE TOP OF THAT
STREET WALL AND WRAPPING
AROUND.
SO AS YOU GET A LITTLE CLOSER
IF I COULD ZOOM IN, YOU CAN SEE
A LITTLE BIT BETTER HERE BUT
THAT INSPIRATION IMAGE IN THE
LOWER RIGHT IS HOW WE CAME UP
WITH THAT THE THE MIDDLE
ENTRANCE IS A HOTEL THEMED KIND
OF LOBBY EXPERIENCE.
WHEN YOU'RE WALKING IN THERE'S
THESE BIG PIVOT DOORS THAT FEEL
REALLY BIG AND HEAVY.
IT'S REALLY GRANDIOSE, YOU
KNOW, FEELING AS YOU WALK IN
AND WE FEEL LIKE THE WAY
EXTENDS OUT OVER THE RIGHT SIDE
.
I COULD BE A PRETTY COOL
EXPERIENCE AS YOU'RE WALKING BY
EVEN IF YOU DON'T LIVE THERE
.
AND SO SOME OF THE INSPIRATION
IMAGES REALLY KIND OF SHOW YOU
THAT'S GOING TO LOOK AND FEEL
IN GREATER DETAIL LIKE THE
WOULD LOOK METAL EXTRUSION FOR
ITSELF OUT OF THAT LOBBY
EXTENSION AND JUST SOME OF THE
MORE THINGS JUST THAT WE REALLY
I REALLY LIKE THE TWO STOREY
EXPRESSION BECAUSE EVEN THOUGH
THAT'S REALLY TWO FLOORS IT
READS A SORT OF ONE SPACE.
AND SO I THINK IT JUST IT'S
WHAT WE'RE MANAGING.
RIGHT.
WELL, BECAUSE THESE ARE THESE
ARE BIG BUILDINGS AND SO IT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT TO ENGAGE THE
STREET IN A WAY THAT'S USER
FRIENDLY AND WE DO THAT JUST ON
CHURCH AND AGAIN, AS I
MENTIONED BEFORE, IT CARRIES
AROUND TO WILLARD BRINGING SOME
GREEN WALLS IN TO THE LOBBY AS
WELL BUT HAVING A LOT OF GLASS
YOU CAN KIND OF SEE AND FEEL IT
AND GIVES IT A COOL EXPERIENCE
WHERE YOU CAN MIX SOME OF THAT
YOU KNOW, IN WITH ARCHITECTURE
.
SO THIS IS, YOU KNOW, ONE
OF THE VIEWS FROM THE SOUTHWEST
CORNER OF THAT WILLARD AND
CHURCH INTERSECTION FACING OUR
BUILDING.
WE'RE REALLY IMPRESSED WITH THE
DEAL OUR TEAM AND WHAT THEY'RE
ABLE TO ACCOMPLISH FOR, YOU
KNOW, A HUNDRED NINETY FIVE
FOOT TALL BUILDING.
WE THINK THEY DID A GREAT JOB
BREAKING IT UP BOTH VERTICALLY
AT THAT THIRD LEVEL WHERE THE
THREE WALL ENDS AS WELL AS YOU
KNOW, WE LOVE THE SYMMETRY
OF THE WINDOWS.
SOMETIMES THE ALTERNATING LINES
ARE ARE ALTERING WINDOWS IS
SOMETHING THAT AN ARCHITECT
WILL PUSH ONTO.
AND IN PRACTICE, YOU KNOW, WHEN
WE BUILT THOSE AROUND THE
COUNTRY WE'RE LESS IMPRESSED
WITH THEM IN PERSON THAN IN
RENDERINGS A LOT OF TIMES.
AND SO WE LOVE THAT THAT
SYMMETRICAL WINDOW ALIGNMENT AS
WELL AS THE GRID.
IF YOU CAN KIND OF SEE HOW IT
HITS PICKED UP HORIZONTALLY
WITH SOME OF THOSE GRID LINES
SO REALLY HAPPY WITH THE TEAM
AND I THINK THROUGHOUT THE
PROCESS IT'S BEEN A REALLY GOOD
COLLABORATION TO GET US TO THIS
POINT.
JUST A BETTER SHOT OF THAT THAT
PHOTO WE HAD EARLIER, THE
INSPIRATION IMAGES SURROUNDING
IT AND YOU CAN REALLY START TO
SEE THAT BRICK DETAILING, YOU
KNOW, ON THE VERTICAL AND YOU
KNOW, SQUARES AROUND THE THE
WINDOWS THE FIRST AND SECOND
QUARTER I THINK IT'S A LOT TO
GIVE YOU A FEW MORE MINUTES.
SO IF YOU WANT TO GO TO THREE
MORE MINUTES, WE'RE PRETTY MUCH
DONE.
YOU KNOW, AT THE END WE WANT TO
JUST KIND OF HIGHLIGHT SOME
OF THE MOST IMPORTANT BENEFITS
.
FORGIVE ME FOR JUST RATTLING
OFF WHAT I WAS TAUGHT IN
SCHOOL.
NEVER DID DO THIS BUT I'M GOING
TO DO IT INCREASE THE HOUSING
STOCK, INCREASING THE TAX BASE,
CREATING PERMANENT JOBS AS WELL
AS TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION JOBS
ALL HIGH PAYING AND HIGH
QUALITY YOU KNOW, IMPROVING THE
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE WITH GOOD
ARCHITECTURE, REDUCING CURB
CUTS.
WE'RE GOING TO IT'S WRITTEN
HERE OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC
ART.
WE ARE GOING TO BRING PUBLIC
ART TO WHAT SHOULD BE A REALLY
COOL ALLEYWAY IN QUOTES
EXPERIENCE AND ORLECK BUILDING
CONTRIBUTION TO THE PARK'S AND
UTILIZING THE THE CURRENTLY
UNUSED AIR RIGHTS AND IN
EXCHANGE FOR MONETARY
CONTRIBUTION WHICH SHOULD
HOPEFULLY ALLEVIATE AND JUST
ONE LAST COMMENT IS I KNOW THAT
IN THE ORIGINAL STAFF COMMENTS
THERE WAS A COUPLE OF OPEN
COMMENTS THAT WE HAD.
WE DID SO WE DID SUBMIT REVISED
PLANS AND ANSWERED ALL OF THOSE
.
AND I THINK I THINK WE WE DID
ALL THAT AND WHEN I SAID I FOR
PUBLIC ART IT WOULD BE ALONG
THIS ALLEYWAY.
IT WON'T LOOK LIKE THIS WORK.
YEAH, WELL I'M PERSONALLY NOT
HAPPY WITH WHERE IT'S CURRENTLY
RIGHT NOW WE ARE GOING TO LOOK
IT'S REALLY A WAY TO ACTIVATE
THAT TO ACTIVATE THAT CORNER
AND WE'RE EXCITED AND WE HAVE
LIKE FOR INSTANCE IN STATE
COLLEGE, PENNSYLVANIA, ONE
OF THE PROJECT MANAGERS I WAS
WORKING WITH ON THAT ONE ACROSS
THE STREET TO A TATTOO PARLOR
AND SAID HEY LOOK, I WANT TO DO
SOMETHING REALLY COOL TO CREATE
SOME ART AND THIS TATTOO ARTIST
CREATED A A AWESOME VERSION
OF THE OF THE PENN STATE ELION
AND WE REPLICATE THAT ACROSS
THE WALL.
I WAS MY FAVORITE PART OF THE
PROJECT SUPER LOCAL SUPER COOL
AND SO HELPED TO TRY TO DO
SOMETHING REALLY COOL HERE FOR
THIS FOR THIS PORTION OF THE
BUILDING AS WELL.
OH AND YOU CAN ALSO SEE HERE
THE RETAIL ENTRANCE MUCH BETTER
TO THAT BASEMENT RETAIL SPACE
AND YOU CAN SEE HOW IT IS
BROKEN UP WHEREAS EVERYTHING
ELSE IS SUPER GLAZED WITH
WINDOWS.
THIS HAS GOT THIS AWESOME BRICK
DETAIL KIND OF DENOTING A
DIFFERENCE IN USE AND CHANGE IN
THE BLOCK AND THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU FOR THE EXTRA TIME.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO STAFF
PRESENTATION MR. LEO.
THANK YOU.
CHAIR.
I'M GOING TO FOCUS ON SOME
OF THE JUST OUR TECHNICAL
REVIEW AND THEN PROVIDE OUR
STAFF RECOMMENDATION AS CLEAR.
THIS IS THE SIX TWENTY FIVE
CHURCH STREET SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
LOCATED AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF CHURCH AND WILLARD AND IN
THE FIRST I BELIEVE
INCORPORATING SOME AIR RIGHTS
OVER LAND OVER OWNED BY THE
CITY BANABA SITE INCLUDES THE
FOUR LOTS OF SIX TWENTY ONE SIX
TWENTY FIVE 633 CHURCH AND
TWELVE OR SEVEN WILLARD THOSE
MAKE UP ABOUT SIXTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET AND THREE
DIMENSIONAL AREA HAS A FOOT
THAT HAVE BEEN SOLD HAS A
FOOTPRINT WOULD IF PROJECTED
DOWN ON THE GROUND WOULD BE
ABOUT 4000 SQUARE FEET BUT
DOESN'T ACTUALLY TOUCH THE
GROUND.
SOME FACTS ABOUT THE SITE AT
THAT I WILL REPEAT IT IS OWNED
ONE DOWNTOWN CORE BASED
DISTRICT S UNIVERSITY CHARACTER
OVERLAY DISTRICT AND SECONDARY
STREET FRONTAGE.
IT IS GENERALLY SURROUNDED BY
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE
SIMILAR WITH GROUND FLOOR
RETAIL AND MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ON UPPER FLOORS
DOES HAVE A PUBLIC PARKING
STRUCTURE ON ITS BACKSIDE THAT
IS CO OWNED BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND THE CITY BANABA
.
THEY ARE CORRECT THAT CITY
COUNCIL PASSED A RESOLUTION IN
APRIL OF THIS YEAR TO AN
APPROVED TO APPROVE AN
AGREEMENT FOR THE SALE OF THE
AIR RIGHTS.
THE AIR RIGHTS COVER THE WEST
END OF THAT SERVICE DRIVE
IMMEDIATELY NORTH OF THE SITE
THE CITY WILL RETAIN OWNERSHIP
OF THE LAND THE ENTIRE PARCEL
BUT OVER THAT SPACE THEY HAVE
SOLD THE RIGHTS FROM A POINT
TWENTY FIVE FEET IN ELEVATION
ABOVE THE GROUND TO A POINT TO
THE TOP OF THE BUILDING TO
ABOUT TWO HUNDRED AND SIX FEET
ABOVE THE SURFACE OF THE
GROUND.
>> SO THE CITY RETAINS
OWNERSHIP OF THE LAND AND THE
FIRST TWENTY FIVE FEET OF THE
AIR AND ALONE FROM TWENTY FIVE
FEET UPWARD.
I BELIEVE THAT THE PROJECT TEAM
IS REALLY COVERED THE DETAILS
OF THE PROPOSAL PRETTY WELL.
IT'S AN INTERESTING FOUR AREA
RATIO CALCULATION FOR THIS
PROJECT BECAUSE OF THE OF THE
AIR RIGHTS AND I PROVIDED IT IN
THE STAFF REPORT THE DAEWON
DISTRICT DOES NOT HAVE A
MAXIMUM FLOREA RATIO SO THIS IS
JUST A FUN FACT BUT RELATIVE TO
JUST ITS OWNERSHIP, THE FOUR
LOTS OF PRIVATELY OWNED THE FAA
IS ONE THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED
FIFTY SEVEN PERCENT.
IF INCLUDING THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE RIGHTS IT WOULD BE MORE
LIKE ONE THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED
AND NINETY PERCENT IF I ARE
CONFIRMING THAT THE DEVELOPMENT
UTILIZES THE INCREASE IN HEIGHT
LIMIT PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE
EIGHTEEN FOR EXCEPTION TO
HEIGHT LIMITS IT MEETS THE
DEFINITION OF A SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT AS WE DEFINE IT AND
SO IT MAY INCREASE THE NORMAL
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOOT
HEIGHT LIMIT TO BY 30 PERCENT
TO NINETY FIVE FEET.
THE PROJECT VOLUNTARILY
PROVIDES TO CARGO'S SIZED
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES AND I
BELIEVE AS MENTIONED BUT THE
SERVICE DRIVE WHICH WILL AREA
WHICH WILL PROBABLY BE OCCUPIED
JUST BY NORMAL CONSTRUCTION
EVENTS WILL BE RESTORED IN
DESIGN APPROVED, DEVELOPED AND
APPROVED BY THE DDA.
THEY DID THAT BECAUSE THERE IS
ANOTHER PROJECT AT THE OTHER
END OF THE ALLEY THAT'S ALSO
GOING TO BE SORT OF TEARING UP
THE ALLEY AND SO THEY'VE DONE A
SINGLE DESIGN AND EACH PROJECT
WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THEIR
PORTION OF RESTORATION BUT IT
WILL BE A COORDINATED UNIFIED
DESIGN.
I'M GOING TO SPEED THIS UP
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE IT'S TAKING
FOREVER.
WE HAVE GONE THROUGH ALL OF THE
REQUIRED PROCEDURES AND THEY
HAVE BEEN SATISFIED FOR THIS
PROJECT INCLUDING CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION MEETING.
THIS PROJECT DID GO TO THE
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD AND AND
I'VE NOTED THE COUNCIL
RESOLUTION.
>> IT'S ALSO GONE THROUGH A
THIRTEEN POINT STAFF REVIEW FOR
COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE
CODES, ORDINANCES AND POLICIES.
NINE DEPARTMENTS HAVE
RECOMMENDED APPROVAL AND FOUR
HAD RECOMMENDED APPROVAL WITH
CONDITIONS THEY ARE ACTUALLY
DOING A RESUBMITS.
I SHOULD NOTE THAT SINCE THE
STAFF REPORT HAS BEEN PREPARED
REVISED PLANS HAVE BEEN
SUBMITTED AND ARE UNDER REVIEW.
WE ARE JUST WAITING FOR THAT
CONFIRMATION.
THE OH I SHOULD ALSO SAY THAT
ATTACHED TO THE PACKET IS A
DRAFT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
LET ME EMPHASIZE DRAFT BUT IT
ADDRESSES THINGS DEVELOPED AS
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS DO.
IT ADDRESSES OFF SITE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT DON'T SHOW UP
ON THIS SITE PLAN OR
COMMITMENTS OR SPECIAL
PROCEDURES THAT AGAIN DON'T
SHOW UP ON A SITE PLAN THAT SAY
THAT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WILL
NEXT BE SENT TO THE ATTORNEYS
OFFICE FOR THEIR REVIEW AND
THEN TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
APPROVAL.
>> BUT CITY STAFF PLANNING
STAFF FOR THIS SITE PLAN IS
RECOMMENDING IT BE
CONDITIONALLY APPROVED BECAUSE
WITH THE CONDITIONS SATISFIED
IT WILL MEET THE CRITERIA FOR
SITE PLAN APPROVAL PROVIDED IN
THE UDC.
THE CONDITIONS SHOULD BE REMOVE
THE CONTROLLED ACCESS GATES ON
THE EAST SIDE OF THE BUILDING
AND ADDRESS THE COMMENTS AND
NOTATIONS OF THE ENGINEERING
AND PUBLIC WORKS REVIEWS.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY FOLLOW
QUESTIONS.
>> OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
THE STAFF PRESENTATION.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT IN THE REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE RACE HAND FEATURE
ON ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST REACH
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT.
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND
PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
>> HELLO AGAIN.
THANK YOU AGAIN.
OF COURSE SOMEONE FROM THE
PUBLIC HAS TO COME IN A
BUILDING THIS LARGE SO MIGHT AS
WELL BE ME.
I WANT TO POINT OUT JUST HOW
MASSIVE THIS BUILDING IS
COMPARED TO WHAT WOULD HAVE
BEEN ALLOWED JUST TWO YEARS TO
GO BEFORE CITY COUNCIL, REMOVE
THE FLOOR AREA RATIO LIMITS
THEN THE MAXIMUM MAXIMUM IF
THEY ARE ONE DISTRICT WAS ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT OR NINE HUNDRED
PERCENT PREMIUMS THANKS TO MR.
LEO'S CALCULATIONS.
I APPRECIATE THOSE.
WE KNOW THAT THIS BUILDING'S
FLIR IS ROUGHLY TWICE THAT SO
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE
COVERED CITY DRIVE, THIS
BUILDING PRETTY MUCH FULLY
OCCUPIES THE ENTIRE SITE UP TO
NINETEEN STOREYS WHICH IS FIVE
STORIES HIGHER THAN THE CURRENT
HEIGHT LIMIT.
IT GETS THOSE EXTRA STORIES DAY
AS YOU'VE HEARD BY MEETING THE
REQUIREMENTS DC FIVE EIGHTEEN
POINT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY
HEIGHT EXCEPTION THAT WE'VE
BEEN HEARING ABOUT AND WHICH I
MENTIONED BEFORE THIS AGAIN
THIS IS THE FOURTH PROJECT AND
JUST A PRETTY SHORT PERIOD
OF TIME THAT'S TAKEN ADVANTAGE
OF THAT WE'LL TALK ABOUT MIXING
THINGS OUT.
THIS IS NOT NECESSARILY BAD.
THIS IS ONE HUNDRED AND NINETY
UNITS OF HOUSING BUT WHAT ARE
WE GETTING IN RETURN FOR A
BUILDING THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
BUILT WAY TOO MASSIVE AND TOO
HIGH TO BE APPROVED?
JUST TWO YEARS AGO THE HOUSING
ROOFTOP SOLAR BUT THAT ONLY
MEET A FRACTION OF THE
BUILDING'S ELECTRICITY DEMAND
AND ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING
EXCEPT FOR EMERGENCY GAS
GENERATOR WHICH IS GOOD BUT
REMEMBER OF COURSE IT DID THAT
FOR THERE THREE THIRTY THREE
MILLION BUILDING WHICH DID NOT
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE HEIGHT
EXCEPTION.
>> I THINK THE FDR LIMITS WERE
ABOUT TO BE REMOVED AT THE TIME
AND CORE SPACES HAD THE
BUILDING DESIGNED ALREADY SO
THEY JUST WENT WITH THE 14
STOREY BUILDING AND MADE IT ALL
ELECTRIC WITHOUT THE EXCEPTION
I GUESS MY POINT IS THAT ON
CHURCH STREET I SPECULATE THE
COURSE SPACES WOULD HAVE BEEN
WILLING TO GO ALL ELECTRIC
THERE TOO WITHOUT THE EXCEPTION
AND PULL UP TO 14 STOREYS SO
I'M NOT KNOCKING CORE SPACES AT
ALL.
I'M REALLY GLAD THIS IS AN
ELECTRIC BUILDING BUT I THINK
THIS IS A GOOD EXAMPLE OF WHY
WE SHOULD CHANGE THE UDC HEIGHT
EXCEPTION TO TOUGHEN THE
SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENT
DEFINITION AND IDEALLY MAKE THE
CURRENT EXEMPTION CONTINGENT ON
BOTH AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY AS IT'S DEFINED
.
MY ONLY QUESTION THAT I WOULD
POSE TO THE DEVELOPERS IS HOW
THEY'RE GOING ALL ELECTRIC
HERE?
WHAT'S THE SYSTEM?
IS IT VRM SYSTEM IS IS THE
ROOFTOP ELECTRICALLY POWERED
BOILERS?
IS IT TAX IDELALISIB?
THAT WOULD BE THE MOST
EFFICIENT BUT I'M JUST CURIOUS
FROM A TECHNICAL POINT OF VIEW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME ON A 19 STORY
BUILDING
?
>> OK WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE TO ANY OTHER SPEAKERS
THERE IS ONE CALLER ONLINE, MR.
CHAIR ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ, YOU
HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HI, ADAM.
JUST GIVE IT HERE.
FOURTEEN THIRTY WAS VEGAS RIGHT
?
I THINK THIS IS GREAT.
I LOVE SEEING LOTS OF NEW
HOUSING WALKABLE THE CAMPUS AS
KEN GARBER MENTIONED, THIS IS
BUMPING RIGHT UP AGAINST OUR
HEIGHT LIMITS WITH THE WITH THE
BONUS AND ALL THAT FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
I WONDER IF WE COULD GET MORE
HOUSING IN THIS AREA IF WE
RAISED THOSE LIMITS.
JUST SOMETHING TO CONSIDER.
THANK THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS?
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ALEX LOWE.
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION?
>> HI, THIS IS ALEX.
SO 25 30 TO PITTSVILLE BELLBIRD
LET'S SAY IN ANSWER TO THE
QUESTION OF WHAT DO WE GET AT
GETTING OUT OF THIS, WE'RE
GETTING A HUNDRED AND NINETY
EIGHT UNITS OF HOUSING WHICH I
THINK IT IS GREAT.
I WISH THAT WE COULD HAVE EVEN
MORE HIJ HERE.
I DON'T SEE WHY NINETEENS
TORIE'S IS A REASONABLE LIMIT.
>> WE'VE ALREADY GOT A TWENTY
SIX STOREY BUILDING IN THE
CITY.
WHY NOT WHY DIDN'T WE HAVE MORE
AND TOILET.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO FURTHER HANDS
RAISED MR. CHAIR.
OK, THANK YOU MANAGER KELLY WE
GIVE IT A FEW MORE SCIENCE OK
BUT THAT WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
OK I AM GOING TO READ THE
MOTION HERE.
JUST GIVE ME ONE SECOND.
ALL RIGHT.
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION PROVES THE SITE PLAN
ESP TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO
ONE SEVEN.
>> THIS IS FOR SIX TO FIVE
CHURCH ST. DATED APRIL TWENTY
FIRST TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
SUBJECT TO ENTERING INTO AND
SATISFYING ALL TERMS OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS THE
REVISED PLANS ARE SUBMITTED
WITH WHICH SATISFACTORY REMOVE
THE CONTROLLED ACCESS GATE
ACCESS GATES ON THE EAST SIDE
OF THE BUILDING AND ADDRESS THE
COMMENTS AND NOTATIONS ON THE
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC WORKS
REVIEWS MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WAIT A SECOND BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
>> I'M SORRY.
OH NO YOU'RE ALL RIGHT.
WHO WOULD LIKE THIS OFTEN
DISCUSSION.
>> OK COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT SO LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
FIRST UH WHOEVER WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THAT IF YOU COULD GO
HIGHER HOW MUCH HIGHER WOULD
YOU BE WILLING TO GO?
AND THAT'S IT'S OBVIOUSLY A
HYPOTHETICAL JUST TRYING TO GET
AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE
UTILIZATION OF THAT
SUSTAINABILITY BONUS.
THESE ARE THE IF WE HAD CAPPED
IT AND YOU YOU KNOW IT WAS A
THREE HUNDRED FOOT LIMIT AS
OPPOSED TO THE TWO HUNDRED THAT
YOU ARE CONSTRAINED WITH, WOULD
THAT BE APPEALING IN ANY WAY TO
YOU GIVEN THE WORK THAT YOU DO
ACROSS THE COUNTRY IN A KIND
OF PRODUCT THAT WE BUILD?
WE APPRECIATE THAT OPEN
QUESTION AN OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK EVERY FLOOR YOU ADD IS
INCREDIBLY MORE EFFICIENT
BECAUSE OF THE FIXED COST
OF THESE BUILDINGS.
YOU KNOW, EVERY FLOOR YOU ADD
IT'S THE SAME SAME FOUNDATION
SYSTEM, SAME ELEVATORS.
YOU KNOW, YOU ADD ONE MORE
FLOOR BUT INCREMENTALLY NOT NOT
THAT MUCH MORE AT SOME POINT
THERE MIGHT BECOME SOME DIS
ECONOMIES OF SCALE FROM A
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION COST
STANDPOINT.
BUT MORE SO THAN ANYTHING I
WOULD SAY YOU KNOW, THESE ARE
VERY LONG PROJECTS IN THE
MAKING AND YOU KNOW, IF THE
THING IF THE CODE WERE TO
CHANGE TOMORROW, I DON'T KNOW
THAT WE WOULD JUST ADD A FLOOR
TOMORROW.
BUT THREE YEARS AGO HAD IT BEEN
DIFFERENT, WE DEFINITELY MIGHT
HAVE UTILIZED MAYBE NOT ALL
OF THAT.
THIRTY STORIES.
THE OTHER THING TO CONSIDER IS,
YOU KNOW, THESE ARE PRETTY
DELICATE INVESTMENTS AND SO,
YOU KNOW, THE THE INVESTOR
COMMUNITY IS GOING TO SAY HEY
LOOK, I LOVE THIS LOCATION AT
30 STORIES THOUGH.
IS THERE ENOUGH DEMAND AT THIS
PRICE POINT TO MAKE A RETURN ON
THE DOLLAR?
THAT MAKES SENSE.
I THINK WE WOULD ALL AGREE
THERE'S PROBABLY INFINITE
DEMAND TO LIVE HERE.
BUT AT WHAT AT WHAT PRICE POINT
RIGHT.
BUT I THINK AT A HIGH LEVEL,
YES, WE WOULD LOVE TO BUILD
MORE BEDS HERE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT CAP IS
RIGHT.
BUT I THINK THE COMMUNITY IS
DOING A GREAT JOB BRINGING NEW
HOUSING WHICH ABSOLUTELY WILL
LOWER THE OVERALL RENT LEVELS
FOR EVERYONE.
CAN I ASK YOU A SLIGHTLY
MODIFIED VERSION?
THANK YOU FOR THAT RESPONSE.
IF YOU COULD GIVE US FEEDBACK
AS A DEVELOPER BUILDING THIS
PRODUCT IN THIS MARKET IS THIS
HEIGHT LIMIT DOES IT CONSTRAIN
IT'S A TOUGH QUESTION RIGHT?
I MEAN THE PUBLIC DOESN'T THINK
IT'S A TOUGH QUESTION.
LOOK, I LOVE I'M I'M A VERY
PROUD OF NOT JUST AS A
DEVELOPER BUT AS A MEMBER OF MY
OWN COMMUNITY.
I WANT MORE HOUSING BECAUSE I
RENT AND MY RENT TO BE LOWER.
SO I THINK IT'S GOOD FOR THE
COMMUNITY IN SEVEN DIFFERENT
WAYS.
THE CHALLENGE IS JUST JUST
BECAUSE YOU MAKE A 50 STORIES
DOESN'T MEAN THE CAPITAL WILL
BE THERE TO BUILD IT AND THEN
ADDITIONALLY HOW MUCH OF THAT
IS GOING TO BE SOUGHT THROUGH
THE LAND?
THE LAND OWNERS ARE GOING TO
TRY TO CAPTURE THAT THROUGH
INCREASED LAND VALUE.
RIGHT.
SO I THINK AT A HIGH LEVEL MORE
CAPITAL MARKETS ARE EXTREMELY
CYCLICAL AND I THINK YOUR
COMMUNITY IS DOING A GREAT JOB
IN MAKING HAY WHILE THE CAPITAL
IS THERE BECAUSE WHEN WHEN WHEN
ONE BUILDING DOESN'T FILL OR
THERE'S TWO YEARS OF NEGATIVE
RENT GROWTH, THE SPIGOT WILL
TURN OFF AND YOU CAN MAKE ONE
HUNDRED STORIES AND NO ONE WILL
GIVE YOU THE MONEY TO BUILD IT.
AND SO THAT'S WHY I THINK IT'S
JUST GOOD TO BE TO BE SMART
GROWTH ORIENTED AND I THINK
YOU'RE REALLY DOING A GOOD JOB
.
I'M NOT JUST SAYING THAT AS
SOMEONE TRYING TO KNOW I MEAN
TIM YEAH.
I MEAN IT WASN'T ALWAYS THAT
WAY AND I YOU KNOW, I LIVED IN
ANN ARBOR FOR EIGHT YEARS SO I
WAS HERE FOR UNDERGRAD AND
GRADUATE SCHOOL.
SO I MEAN I I CAN FEEL HOW THE
COMMUNITY HAS CHANGED WITH
WHERE
WE'VE HAD A DEBT WHERE
YOU'VE ADDED DENSITY.
I'M PROUD OF THE PROJECTS THAT
WE'RE DOING HERE.
I THINK IT'S REALLY MY COMMENT
ON IT IS MORE IS TO BE
THOUGHTFUL ABOUT WHERE YOU WANT
YOUR GROWTH AND THEN TO PICK
THAT SORTA CORE AREA FOR LACK
OF A BETTER WORD PUN INTENDED
AND AND SAY THAT THAT'S WHERE
WE WANT TO ADD THE HEIGHT
BECAUSE IN YOUR MIND YOU SHOULD
BE DOING SORT OF THE ANALYSIS.
I WOULD THINK THAT WOULD YOU
RATHER HAVE A SERIES
OF SEQUENTIAL 14 STOREY
BUILDINGS, 12 STORY BUILDINGS
GOING UP AND DOWN WHOLE CITY
BLOCKS OR WOULD YOU RATHER HAVE
HAD THREE THAT WERE BIGGER AND
IT'S KIND OF BALANCING THAT
THAT YOU THINK ABOUT FOR HOW
YOU WANT TO POPULATE RSU AND
OTHER AREAS AROUND THE CITY.
BUT YOU KNOW, IT DOES IT DOES
EASE SOME OF THE BURDEN ON OUR
COST WHEN YOU CAN DO A LITTLE
BIT HIGHER IT MAKES MORE
ECONOMIES OF SCALE AND AND LETS
YOU DO MORE THINGS I THINK FROM
A DESIGN PERSPECTIVE.
CAN YOU TALK INTO THE MIKE
SORRY AND I THINK FROM A DESIGN
PERSPECTIVE AND I WON'T SPEAK
FOR JOE AND JARED ON THE PRO
FORMA SIDE BUT IN MY EXPERIENCE
WHAT I SEE WITH ADDITIONAL
HEIGHT IS WHAT THEY MENTIONED
ON THE CAPITAL SIDE.
IT'S NOT EVERYBODY IS GOING TO
TOP OUT AT THAT HEIGHT THEY'RE
GIVEN YOU WILL INDUCE SOME
VARIETY IN THE BUILDING THAT
GETS DONE IN THE CITY AND TO
EACH INDIVIDUAL BUILDING.
THIS IS A VERY SIMPLE CLEAN YOU
KNOW, JOE MENTIONED THERE'S NO
DANCING WINDOWS ON THIS ONE
INTENTIONALLY HAVE A NICE CLEAN
AND SIMPLE BUILDING BUT THE
EXTRA HEIGHT AFFORDS YOU TO DO
IS ASSESS YOUR UNIT MIX AND
THINK WHERE CAN WE ADD IN SOME
DIVERSITY, ATTRACT A DIFFERENT
VARIETY OF RENTERS AND THAT IN
TURN CAN CHANGE THE EXTERIOR
EXPRESSION THE BUILDING BY
TREATING THOSE FLOORS PERHAPS A
LITTLE MORE DIFFERENTLY AND
GIVE IT A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF WHAT I WOULD SAY A FLAVOR TO
THE EXTERIOR DESIGN AND
THOUGHTFUL MANNER OR MORE STEP
BACKS OR SOMETHING BECAUSE
YOU'RE NOT CAPPED AT HEIGHT YOU
WOULD GOT THE SAME AFFAIR
ANYWAYS.
AND SO I'M JUST GOING TO ADD A
MUNDANE ELEMENT BECAUSE YOU
CAN'T JUST THINK OF THE
ARCHITECTURE AND THE BENCH.
SCOTT AND I WORKED ON MANY
PROJECTS APPROXIMATING THIS
SIZE AND ONE OF THE THINGS WERE
REACHING THE LIMIT OF IS THE
ABILITY TO SERVICE THEM.
IF YOU HAD A TALLER BUILDING
YOU'D HAVE TO DEDICATE SO MUCH
OF YOUR FIRST FLOOR TO TRASH
AND RECYCLE THAT YOU WOULDN'T
HAVE A SPACE FOR THE RETAILER.
SO WE'RE REALLY KIND OF HITTING
THAT POINT WHERE WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO HAVE TRASH PICKUP MOST
DAYS THIS WEEK IF NOT ALL DAYS
OF THE WEEK.
AND IF YOU WEREN'T TALLER YOU
DIDN'T HAVE TO GIVE UP MORE
SPACE OR HAVE MULTIPLE TIMES A
DAY SERVICING THOSE MUNDANE
LOGISTICAL THINGS TO CONSIDER.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR THOSE ANSWERS.
THE OTHER THING AND I'LL GIVE
IT TO YOU YOU DON'T HAVE TO
ANSWER IT RIGHT NOW BECAUSE I
WANT TO ASK SOME OTHER
QUESTIONS AND THEN I'LL I'LL
SEE HOW I'M DOING ON TIME THEN
COME BACK TO IT WHICH WAS
PRECISELY TO MR. GRAVAS
QUESTION WHICH IS IF THE
SUSTAINABILITY AND THE
AFFORDABILITY WERE TIED
TOGETHER IN ORDER TO UNLOCK THE
HEIGHT BONUS, WOULD YOU STILL
PURSUE BOTH SO THAT'S THE WOULD
YOU STILL PURSUE THE HEIGHT IF
YOU HAD IT TIED TO THE
AFFORDABILITY UNITS SO MY
QUESTIONS AND WE CAN START WITH
THIS ARTWORK BECAUSE I THINK
THIS IS LIKE THE RIK'S CLUB
THAT WHERE THIS IS LOCATED IT
HAS ANOTHER AFFECTIONATE NAME
SO YOU'RE COMING IN AND THE
GALLERIA IS COMING IN AND
YOU'RE BOTH ON THIS CITY OWNED
LAND AND PINAR DEL RIO SAID
THAT YOU'RE BOTH GOING TO HELP
RECONSTRUCT IT ONCE YOU'RE
DONE.
I WONDER HAVE YOU ALL
COLLABORATED ABOUT CREATING A
COMPLETE SPACE AS OPPOSED TO
JUST THE EACH SIDE OF THE
DEVELOPMENT TO JUST MAKE SURE
THAT IT'S A CONTIGUOUS BECAUSE
IT COULD ACTUALLY BE A
DESTINATION AND I DON'T KNOW IF
YOU ALL THINK ABOUT THINGS LIKE
THIS BUT PEOPLE LOOK FOR THESE
UNIQUE SPACES IN ORDER TO TAKE
PICTURES AND TO DO SORT OF GEO
CACHING THINGS ALONG THOSE
LINES.
AND SO YOU ACTUALLY HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO DO JUST A REALLY
LIGHT PLACEMAKING IN THIS SPACE
THAT HAS OTHERWISE BEEN SORT
OF ABANDONED TO WHAT THAT ALLEY
IS AFFECTIONATELY KNOWN AS.
SO HAVE YOU ALL GIVEN ANY
THOUGHT TO THAT?
IS THAT IN ANY THE
CONVERSATIONS GO AHEAD THEY CAN
FEEL FREE TO ADD THE DIA HAS
HIRED SMITH GROUP TO DO EXACTLY
THAT BECAUSE THERE'S TWO
DEVELOPERS AND WE'VE TAKEN
WE'VE TAKEN THE COORDINATION
ROLE AND THE BURDEN FOR THEM TO
COORDINATE BETWEEN TWO
COMPETING DEVELOPERS AND THE
DESIGNERS OF THE GROUP TO COME
UP WITH PLANS AND THEY'RE
THEY'RE CLOSE TO DONE AND THEY
ARE THEY WERE ON THE ONE HAND
TO BE LARGELY THE SAME.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND THEY ARE
TAKING THE OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE
SURE THAT IT FUNCTIONS FOR BOTH
NEW PROJECTS CAN HANDLE THE
SERVICE FUNCTIONS LIKE TRASH.
BUT WITH THE INCREASED
PEDESTRIANS THEY ARE LOOKING AT
A CURB LIST DESIGN AND THE
DESIGN TREATMENTS TO GIVE EQUAL
FOOTING TO BOTH CARS AND
PEDESTRIANS AND TO MAKE IT
CONTINUE MAKING IT A WORTHWHILE
SERVICE ELLIE SO YOU CAN ADD
MORE.
>> BUT YES, THE DIVA SADE SMITH
GROUP AND THEY'VE ALMOST
FINISHED WITH DESIGNS AND THE
EACH DEVELOPER I DON'T HAVE ANY
LINEAR FEET IN FRONT OF ME BUT
IF THEY AND THE TWO PROJECT
ALMOST EXACTLY MEET AND SO
THEY'LL BE DOING THE I DON'T 40
PERCENT OF THE DESIGN AND THE
OTHER PROJECT IS THE OTHER
SIXTY PERCENT SAME DESIGN AND
WITH THE BASE THE DESIGN THE
D.A. WILL COME UP WITH OUR GOAL
IS TO REALLY ACTIVATE THAT
CONNECTION POINT BETWEEN CHURCH
AND FOREST AND THAT'S WHY THE
MURAL IN THE OVERHANG WE REALLY
THINK IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY SO WE
ECHO EVERYTHING YOU'VE SAID.
>> YEAH.
ANYTHING YOU CAN DO TO BRING
SOME LIGHT INTO THAT SPACE
ESPECIALLY AT NIGHT BECAUSE I
THINK RICK IS BEING PRESERVED
AND THE OTHER DEVELOPMENT I
THOUGHT I READ IN THE PAPER SO
CONTINUING THEIR OPERATION NEXT
DOOR.
YEAH.
SO YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
PEDESTRIAN'S IN THAT SPACE THE
WHOLE TIME THAT THEY'RE WAITING
TO GET IN AND SO HAVING
SOMETHING THAT MAKES THAT A
LITTLE BIT MORE APPEALING IS
DEFINITELY SOMETHING I JUST
WANT TO DO LIKE YEAH AND TO
YOUR POINT THERE IS IT'S TOUGH
TO SEE WHAT THE FLOOR THE
FLORAL DESIGN HERE BUT THERE
WILL BE RECESSED DOWN LIGHTS.
SURE.
AND WE'RE WORKING WITH OUR
LIGHTING DESIGNER ON THE
PROJECT TO POTENTIALLY DO A
WALL WASH FIXTURE AS YOU SEE IT
ON THE TOP CORNER OF THAT
MURAL.
SO THAT'S DEFINITELY IN THE
FOREFRONT OF OUR THOUGHTS
OF HOW WE'RE TRYING TO TREAT
THIS SPACE AND THE LINE TO
RICK'S WILL.
Q THERE MAKE IT MORE USABLE,
LIVELY WHITE YEAH.
>> AND THEN MY MY LESS QUESTION
FOR NOW IS HOW DO YOU PLAN TO
DEAL WITH ALL OF THE DELIVERY
SERVICES ALSTYLE TICKET.
THAT QUESTION FIRST IN THE BACK
LEFT OF THIS FIRST FLOOR BEHIND
WHERE THE MURAL ENDS THERE WILL
BE A LARGE TRASH LOADING AREA
ACTUALLY IT'S OVERSIZE BECAUSE
NOT JUST FOR THIS BUILDING SO
WE'LL HAVE BOTH COME ON BRAD IS
A LOT OF ZONE RIGHT UP FRONT AS
WELL.
IF YOU COULD SCROLL THROUGH THE
FIRST TWO I DON'T KNOW IF WE
HAVE THE SITE POINT UP THERE.
I MEAN I SAW IT ON THE SITE
WHEN IT'S THIS RIGHT HERE YOU
HAVE ABOUT TWO AND A HALF MAYBE
THREE PARKING SPACES AS A
RESULT BUT NO CURB CUT.
SO OR IS IT DID THE DEA ARE YOU
LIKE BUYING THOSE SPOTS THEN
PERMANENTLY PREVENTING PEOPLE
FROM PARKING THERE AND THEN WHO
DOES ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE JUST
BECAUSE YOU DRAW IT ON A MAP
DOESN'T MEAN THAT THE AMAZON
DELIVERY IS GOING TO USE THAT.
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THE UBER
EATS PERSON IS GOING TO USE
THAT.
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THE
FLORIST WHO'S DELIVERING THE
VALENTINE'S DAY FLOWERS IS
GOING TO USE THAT ALL OF THOSE
THINGS ARE REAL.
THIS IS THIS IS SIMILAR TO WHAT
WE PROVIDED AT THE THE LEGACY
OVER ON WASHINGTON STREET AND
ALSO ON THE 12 OR NINE S
UNIVERSITY WHERE WE HAD IT'S
NOT RECESSED HERE, RIGHT.
MR. MOORE?
IT'S IT'S STRAIGHT AT THE
STREET AND THAT'S A REQUIREMENT
OF THE FIRE MARSHAL DIDN'T WANT
HE DIDN'T WANT THE BAR BOUNCER
DELIO YES.
>> THERE'S A DANCE INVOLVED
BETWEEN MAKING SURE THAT THE
SIDEWALK IS WIDE ENOUGH TO
PROVIDE ALL THE AMENITIES THAT
YOU LIKE BUT THEN NOT TOO WIDE
THAT THEY STILL MEET FINE
ACCESS REQUIREMENTS AND BUMP
OUTS DO HAVE A ROLE IN THAT.
CURBSIDE MANAGEMENT IS AN
ONGOING ISSUE CITYWIDE NOT JUST
THIS PROJECT THEY HAVE
PROACTIVELY SHOWN AND THE
APPROVED BECAUSE THE DDA DOES
MANAGE THE ON SITE STREET I
MEANT ON STREET PARKING.
>> I THINK THAT WHILE THAT
WHILE WE'VE ALL LOOKED AT THIS
CURBSIDE MANAGEMENT IT IS AN
EVOLVING POLICY AND MANAGEMENT
AND IF MORE SPACE IS NEEDED DUE
TO THE VOLUME, I THINK THAT THE
DENHA WILL MANAGE THE CURBSIDE
ACCORDINGLY AND THAT WILL BE
CITYWIDE NOT JUST FOR THIS
PROJECT.
>> YEAH, I JUSTT'S JUST
PEDESTRIANS THAT LOSE OUT IN
THESE SPACES WHEN WE DON'T
ACTUALLY MAKE THEM AVAILABLE
FOR THE THE SERVICES.
I'M NOT CRITICIZING YOU.
OF COURSE YOU'RE NOT IN CHARGE
OF WELL MAYBE NOT SO MUCH THE
PEDESTRIANS BUT ACTUALLY THE ON
STREET BIKERS.
YES THAT'S WHO LOSES OUT.
OK, I'M GOING TO STOP FOR NOW
TO ALLOW MY COLLEAGUES TO TALK
HAVE SOME MORE IF THERE'S TIME.
>> OK, WHO WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE
TO COMMENT?
>> COMMISSIONER ABRAMS, I HAVE
A QUICK QUESTION.
WHAT KIND OF RETAIL DO YOU
IMAGINE IN THE BASEMENT?
LIKELY SOME TYPE OF LIGHT FOOD
AND ALCOHOL BAR OR RESTAURANT
TYPE ESTABLISHMENT WOULD BE MY
GUESS WE COULD VERY WELL GET
SOME APPAREL.
IT'S A BIG SPACE.
PROBABLY GOING TO BE CHEAPER,
YOU KNOW, TYPE SPACE MORE
GENERALLY COMPARED TO WHAT
OTHER APPAREL USERS MIGHT FIND
ELSEWHERE FOR
THAT SIZE BECAUSE
NOW PEOPLE ARE BUILDING
THIS
TYPE OF RETAIL.
WE REALLY BELIEVE IN IT AND
IT'S CONTINUED GROWTH THIS
AREA.
SO THAT'S WHY WE'RE BUILDING
IT.
IT'S TOO EARLY TO TELL BUT
RIGHT NOW GENERALLY SPEAKING,
QUICK SERVICE RESTAURANTS ARE
TYPICALLY THE NUMBER ONE, YOU
KNOW, USER THAT SPACE IS NOT
DESIGNED FOR THEM BUT THEN BAR
RESTAURANTS TEND TO BE ANOTHER
HIGH DEMAND USER AND THEN I
WOULD SAY LIKE THIRD WOULD BE
WHAT I MENTIONED LIKE APPAREL
OR YOU KNOW, BIGGER
ENTERTAINMENT TYPE USES
OF COURSE GREAT.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
THOUGHTS, COMMENTS COMMISSION
MILLS BECAUSE I'M LOOKING AT MY
ROOMS TODAY I'LL SAY I
APPRECIATE WHERE IT IS.
I THINK THAT THAT'S A QUICK
ACCESS FOR CYCLISTS.
I THINK IT'LL GET USED.
I HOPE IT GETS USED FOR YOUR
PERSPECTIVE TO RIGHT.
>> LIKE I MEAN THAT'S VALUABLE
GROUND LIKE FIRST FLOOR AREA
BUT COMING RIGHT THERE OFF THE
ALLEY AND IT'S NOT TOO FAR OR
SO THAT'S I GUESS THAT'S NOT
ACTUALLY THE ALLEY BUT IT'S
GOING TO OPERATE LIKE A
PEDESTRIAN ALLEY.
>> RIGHT.
I ALSO THINK CREATING A MORE
WELCOMING SPACE TO GET BACK OUT
OF THE PARKING GARAGE WILL MAKE
THIS MUCH MORE COMFORTABLE
PLACE.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT.
I DO WANT TO GO BACK TO THE
QUESTION THAT COMMISSIONER
WHICH POSED ABOUT LIKE A
SUSTAINABILITY PLUS
AFFORDABILITY AND THEN I HAVE
ONE MORE BECAUSE I DIDN'T HEAR
THE ANSWER TO THAT AND YOU
DIDN'T ANSWER I POSTED.
I KNOW.
SO I'M GOING TO ASK FOR THE
ANSWER AND THEN I DO WANT TO
KNOW KIND IF YOU'VE THOUGHT
ABOUT HOW YOU'RE GOING TO BE
CONDITIONING A SPACE LIKE WHAT
KIND OF UNITS YES WE ARE VR AND
I LET JOHN TALK A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT THE ACTUAL EIGHT
SYSTEM BUT I THINK TO ANSWER A
QUESTION ABOUT AFFORDABILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY LOTS LOT TO
UNPACK HERE EFFECTIVELY THOUGH
LIKE I THINK WHAT REALLY
CARRIES THE MOST WEIGHT FOR
AFFORDABILITY A LOT OF PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT YOU'RE GOING TO
STOP YOU ARE NOT GOING TO SOLVE
AFFORDABILITY CRISIS THROUGH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
OR MANDATING AFFORDABLE
REQUIREMENTS ARE GOING TO DO IT
BY A TON OF DEVELOPMENT IN THE
PRIVATE SPACE AND BRINGING THE
OVERALL LEVEL DOWN IN MY
OPINION BECAUSE BECAUSE IT'S
GOING TO MOVE THE NEEDLE SO
MUCH MORE.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE YOU COULD BUILD A
THOUSAND AFFORDABLE UNITS BUT
IF YOU KNOW A THOUSAND MORE
IT'S JUST LIKE THE MATH DOESN'T
WORK WHEN YOU REALLY BREAK IT
DOWN I'D BE HAPPY TO TO TRY TO
IMPACT A LITTLE BIT MORE
MATHEMATICALLY BUT THE
SUSTAINABILITY DOES SOMEWHAT
RUN A LITTLE COUNTER TO THAT.
RIGHT.
WHEN WE DO THESE SUSTAINABLE
THINGS WE'RE MAKING THESE
THINGS MORE EXPENSIVE TO BUILD
AND THEREFORE INCREASING THE
HURDLE FOR ATTRACTING CAPITAL.
BUT WHAT I WOULD SAY IS THE
MOST SUSTAINABLE THING YOU CAN
DO IS REDUCE THE RELIANCE ON
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC AND
INCREASING THE ABILITY FOR FOR
YOU TO NOT NEED A CAR AND WALK
EVERYWHERE AND CREATING THESE
15 MINUTE CITIES.
RIGHT.
THE REDUCTION MAINTENANCE ON
ROADS, EVERYTHING WHEN YOU ADD
IT ALL UP, THESE HIDDEN COSTS
SOCIETY LIKE BUILDING DENSITY
IN THESE PLACES IS ABSOLUTELY
THE WAY TO DO IT.
LOOK NO FURTHER THAN WHAT
HAPPENS IN DALLAS WHEN THEY
JUST ABANDONED RINGS AROUND THE
METROPLEX AND GO TO THE NEXT
ONE OUT THOSE CITY SERVICES ARE
STRUGGLING SO MUCH TO KEEP KEEP
UP WITH PAYS.
TAXES ARE FLYING UP AND THEY
STILL CAN'T KEEP UP WITH IT.
IT'S JUST NOT A SUSTAINABLE WAY
TO BUILD A SOCIETY NOT NOTHING
AGAINST DALLAS PEOPLE BUT LIKE
SO IN OTHER WORDS.
YES, IMPOSE INCENTIVIZING
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IS
GREAT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT.
I DO THINK THERE IS THERE IS
MERIT TO INCREASE DEVELOPMENT
BEING GOOD FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
AGNOSTIC OF HAVING AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING AND NOT SAY
THEY'RE MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE BUT
JUST SOMETHING TO CONSIDER IT
AND THEN ACTUALLY IT'S A VERY
SYSTEM.
OH I'M SORRY.
YEAH, JUST A VERY MINOR
CLARIFICATION.
>> IT'S A VOIP CAN BE
CONFUSING.
IT'S A VARIABLE REFRIGERANT
PACK SYSTEM AND THE ADDED
BENEFIT TO THAT AS FAR AS THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT TO THE
PROJECT YOU CAN SEE IN THIS
IMAGE HERE YOU HAVE INTEGRATED
THESE EXTERIOR LOUVERS INTO THE
SIDE SO YOU'RE WELCOMING
ADDITIONAL FRESH OUTSIDE AIR
THAT'S NOT BEING FED DOWN TO
THE CORRIDORS AND THEN INTO THE
UNITS.
SO FROM THAT PERSPECTIVE AND
INTERIOR ENVIRONMENT IT'S MUCH,
MUCH MORE PREFERRED FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE THAT I DID WANT TO
ADDRESS THAT ANSWER AS WELL
WITH THE GENTLEMAN'S QUESTION
FROM EARLIER JUST TO CLARIFY,
DO YOU HAVE ONE MORE QUESTION
JUST ON THIS?
DO YOU HAVE ANY SENSE OF ARE
YOU BUILDING TO THE NEW ENERGY
CODE IN TERMS OF MAKING THE
BACBAC DOABLE?
ARE YOU EXCEEDING THE ENERGY
CAN YOU JUST TELL CAN YOU GIVE
US A SENSE IN TERMS OF HOW
TIGHT YOUR HOW WELL INSULATED
YOUR BUILDING IS?
>> YES, IT'S IT'S RIGHT NOW
WE'RE TRACKING TO THE NEW
UPDATED ENERGY CODES.
WE'RE AT THE POINT OF ISSUING
DOCUMENTS WITH MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT SELECTIONS AND OUR
SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANT FOR
THE PROJECT WILL BE ABLE TO VET
THAT AND KIND OF DIAL IN WHERE
ABOVE THAT THRESHOLD ARE COMING
IN AT CURRENTLY.
SO THAT'S PROBABLY IN THE NEXT
FOUR TO SIX WEEKS.
WE'LL HAVE A GOOD IDEA ABOUT
THAT.
BUT GENERALLY SPEAKING, YOU
IT'S NOT THAT TRYING TO GO FOR
ANYTHING I GUESS AT ONCE BUT
NOTHING THAT WOULD BE BELOW
THAT THRESHOLD IN TERMS OF LIKE
LEAVES CERTIFICATION LEVELS OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
WE'RE COMING IN RIGHT AT OR
ABOVE WHERE WE WOULD BE
REQUIRED BY THE CODES.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ONE MORE THING I THINK THERE'S
LIKE SAYING FIFTY PERCENT
OF YOUR OF YOUR WASTE COMES AT
THE BUILDING AND YOUR WASTE
COMES IN THE OPERATION OF THE
BUILDING OR ITS USEFUL LIFE.
AND SO IF YOU'RE REALLY MORE
EFFICIENT IN BUILDING HOUSING
BY BUILDING IT WITH ONE ROOF,
ONE FOUNDATION, ALL OF THAT
RIGHT.
THERE'S LIKE THAT'S PART OF THE
MATH TRADE OFF THAT YOU ALSO
HAVE TO CONSIDER.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE THE BUILDING THERE'S SO
MUCH SUSTAINABILITY BY BEING
MORE EFFICIENT WITH IT JUST THE
OPERATION OF IT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS THOUGHT
COMMENTS.
>> OK I WILL GIVE IT A CRACK
OVERALL AGAIN LOOKING AT
MASSING HEIGHT AGAIN ONE
HUNDRED FIFTY FEET ON THE S
UNIVERSITY CHARACTER OVERLAY
WITH A THIRTY PERCENT PREMIUM
TOTALLY GET IT I JUST RAN SOME
BACK.
I DO WANT TO ACTUALLY ADDRESS
THAT POINT ABOUT THE
AFFORDABILITY SUSTAINABILITY.
I THINK IT IS SOMETHING THAT WE
SHOULD PROBABLY TALK ABOUT
AGAIN I THINK IT COMPLIES ON A
BI IT COMPLIES WITH THE
STANDARDS THAT WE'VE CREATED SO
WHERE MY HEAD IS GOING IS THE
SITE SIXTEEN THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET SO PHOTOVOLTAICS IF YOU'RE
DOING SIXTY SIXTY PERCENT IT'S
ABOUT LIKE TEN THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET AND PHOTOVOLTAICS PROBABLY
IN ONE HUNDRED GRAND MAYBE 150
BECAUSE YOU GOT A BUNCH
OF CONDUITS RUNNING UP.
IT'S A LARGE BUILDING THAT
COMPARED TO FIFTEEN PERCENT
OF AFFORDABLE I'M JUST THINKING
THROUGH THE PROPORTIONALITY AND
I CAN BLAME YEAH.
FROM TAKING IT JUST FROM WHAT
MATHEMATICALLY MAKES MORE
SENSE.
>> RIGHT AND SO THERE'S A BUT
I'M JUST POINTING OUT JUST
OBJECTIVE FACTS OF WHAT I SEE
HERE AND SO WHEN I TAKE A LOOK
AN ADDITIONAL LET'S SAY FOR
FLOORS SOMETHING LIKE FOUR OR
FIVE I WOULD SAY IF YOU'RE
USING AN AVERAGE THREE FIFTY A
SQUARE FOOT IN RENTAL RATES YOU
COULD POTENTIALLY ADD AND LET'S
LET'S USE A SIXTY PERCENT OPEX
RATIO.
I'M JUST GOING TO BE THROWING A
FEW JUST BACK IN FORTH AND
STUFF HERE YOU COULD
POTENTIALLY ADD ANOTHER ONE AND
A HALF MILLION DOLLARS AND THEN
I HERE JUST USING THAT TO KIND
OF LIKE SUSTAINABILITY OR THE
HIGH PREMIUM AND SO GENERALLY
THE CAP RATES HERE TRADING
ABOUT FOUR AND A HALF, FOUR AND
A QUARTER SO IT INCREASES THE
VALUE OF THE BUILDING BY 30 TO
40 MILLION JUST BASED ON THE
VIRTUE OF THAT.
AGAIN, YOU'RE STILL DELIVERING
UNITS.
SO I'M JUST THIS IS JUST KIND
OF AN OBSERVATION JUST FROM
PROPORTIONALITY STANDPOINT
OF WHAT THE SOLAR RELATIVE TO
AFFORDABILITY IT'S IT'S A NO
BRAINER WHY IT'S BEING CHOSEN
JUST FROM A SOLAR PERSPECTIVE.
SO I DO THINK THAT WE NEED TO
HAVE A REAL DISCUSSION AROUND
JUST THE PROPORTIONALITY
OF THAT BEING SAID AGAIN, I
AGREE WITH YOU OUR CAPITAL
MARKETS ARE FICKLE EVEN WITH
GLOBAL POLITICS THAT WE HAVE
SOVEREIGNTY FUNDS LOOK AT THE
US AND THEY SAY IS THAT REALLY
WHERE WE WANT TO INVEST RIGHT
NOW?
SO THERE'S A LOT OF KIND
OF FLUCTUATION.
SO I AGREE WITH YOUR ASSESSMENT
.
THE CAP STACK HAS TO MAKE SENSE
AT THAT POINT IN TIME WITH A
PROJECT AND PRODUCT TYPE THAT
THEY KNOW.
RIGHT.
AND SO I'M WITH YOU.
I'M JUST LOOKING AT IT
OBJECTIVELY.
SIX HUNDRED FIFTY THREE BEDS
ONE HUNDRED NINETY EIGHT UNITS
OF THREE POINT THREE BEDS
AVERAGE PER UNIT AND THEN
TAKING A LOOK AT JUST KIND
OF THE VALUE CREATION THROUGH
AGAIN AGAIN AGAIN I'M GLAD THAT
THE PROJECT WORKS AND THAT BUT
LOOKING AT WHAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
15 PERCENT OF PAYMENT IN LIEU
CONTRIBUTION LET'S SAY I THINK
THE SPREAD IS ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY SEVEN DOLLARS A SQUARE
FOOT RELATIVE TO THE FIFTEEN
PERCENT OF UNITS AND SO THE
AFFORDABILITY CONTRIBUTION IS
SOMEWHERE AROUND LIKE THREE
MILLION DOLLARS.
NOW AGAIN GRANTED THAT'S NOT
THE WAY THAT THE CODE READS.
SO AGAIN, I CAN'T NECESSARILY
I'M ONLY JUST MAKING AN
OBSERVATION HERE.
SO I JUST THINK THAT WE DO NEED
TO HAVE A DISCUSSION ABOUT
PROPORTIONALITY.
BUT THAT BEING SAID, THE
CODE IS WHAT IT IS.
ALL WE CAN DO IS
ADMINISTRATIVELY SAY THIS IS
WHAT IT STATES CURRENTLY.
>> SO BY VIRTUE OF THAT FROM AN
HOUR STANDPOINT THERE IS NO FAR
FROM A HEIGHT STANDPOINT IT IT
PERMITTED BASED ON THE CURRENT
SUSTAINABILITY PREMIUMS THAT IS
WRITTEN IN THE CODE PERMITTED
USE.
I THINK IT COMPLIES SO GIVEN
THAT IT ADDRESSES GIVEN THE
CONDITIONS THAT WE HAVE THAT
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT WITH THOSE
TWO CONDITIONS, I WOULD BE IN
SUPPORT OF THIS PROJECT SO THAT
MY COMMENTS ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WITH ANY FINAL
THOUGHTS?
>> QUICK QUESTION.
YES.
THIS IS FROM THE CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION.
IT SAYS YOU SET OUT ABOUT
SEVENTEEN HUNDRED POSTCARDS.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANY SENSE OF HOW
MANY WERE RETURNED?
AND WE'RE WE'RE ASKING BECAUSE
WE'RE GETTING A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW THIS
WORKS.
SO FROM MY CALCULATION YOU SENT
SIXTEEN NINETY FOUR POSTCARDS
YOU NOTED IN
YOUR REPORT YOU
HAD ABOUT TWO DOZEN PEOPLE SHOW
UP WHICH MEANS YOU HAD ABOUT A
ONE AND A HALF PERCENT
PARTICIPATION RATE FROM THE
POSTCARD TWO WHO SHOWED UP IN
THE ROOM AND WHAT WE DIDN'T
HAVE IN YOUR REPORT WAS WHETHER
YOU HAD ANY UNDELIVERED
POSTCARDS APPROXIMATELY TWO
HUNDRED WERE RETURNED SO TWO
HUNDRED AND SO THOSE THOSE
ADDRESSES COME FROM US FROM THE
CITY AND THEN YOU JUST SEND OUT
AND THEN THEY COME BACK TO YOU
OR TO THE CITY TO COME BACK
THEY COME BACK TO YOU.
>> OK, SO ABOUT TWO HUNDRED SO
ABOUT TWELVE THIRTEEN PERCENT.
>> OK GREAT THANK OK ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WITH FINAL
THOUGHTS BEFORE WE HAVE THIS
VOTE?
>> JUST ONE THING THAT I'LL
ALSO MENTION HAVE YOU GUYS DONE
A PROPERTY TAX?
I'M SURE YOU HAVE FROM THE
ASSESSMENT STANDPOINT BASED ON
THE TOTAL COST.
ONE OF THE THINGS I DO WANT TO
POINT OUT IS THAT IT WILL
INCREASE TAX REVENUES
SIGNIFICANTLY FOR THE CITY AND
A PART OF THAT MILLAGE IS GOING
TO GO TOWARDS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
>> RIGHT.
SO THE QUESTION JUST BEING WHAT
DOES THAT APPROXIMATELY LOOK
LIKE?
>> DO OFF THE TOP MY HEAD
WITHOUT LOOKING IT UP ON MY
PHONE RIGHT NOW BE OVER A
MILLION DOLLAR NET INCREASE
CATCH UP EARLIER ON ON PROPERTY
TAXES OR JUST AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILLAGE PROPERTY TAX,
PROPERTY TAX I DON'T KNOW THE
BREAKDOWN GOGIA.
>> I WOULD THINK THAT ASSUMING
THREE FOUR HUNDRED BUCKS A
SQUARE FOOT YOU'RE PROBABLY
LOOKING AT SOMEWHERE BETWEEN
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY MILLION
DOLLARS TOTAL PROJECT COST BY
THAT BY THE TO I'M BASICALLY
TRYING TO FORECAST JUST
PROPORTIONATELY THERE IS ALSO
PROPERTY TAX REVENUES BEING
GENERATED BY VIRTUE OF THIS
PROJECT OCCURRING AND THEN THAT
WILL BE IN PERPETUITY ANY
FUNDING TOWARDS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILEAGE.
>> SO THAT'S SOMETHING I WANT
TO POINT OUT AGAIN I'M NOT
LOOKING TO PASS IT.
BAR CODE SAYS WHAT IT IS THAT
CAN COMMENT REGARDING THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILEAGE
MALMSBURY THE AFFORDABILITY
PREMIUM RELATIVE TO
SUSTAINABILITY.
I THINK JUST LOOKING AT THE
ABSOLUTE MERITS OF IT, THERE'S
A PROPORTIONALITY QUESTION THAT
WE HAVE TO ANSWER THAT'S ON US.
THAT'S NOT YOU AND THEN BUT I
ALSO WANT TO RECOGNIZE THAT
THIS PROJECT ON A BI RATE BASIS
WILL INCREASE PROPERTY TAXES
AND THE REVENUE OVERALL BASE
FOR THE CITY.
>> I JUST CONFIRMED MY QUICK
MATH THAT AND PULL UP THE
ACTUAL NUMBER THAT WE THINK
IT'S GOING TO BE BUT OVER A
MILLION DOLLARS IS I FEEL
COMFORTABLE SAYING THAT A NET
INCREASE ANNUALLY.
YEAH.
YEAH FOR SURE.
COOL.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
APPRECIATE YOUR PRESENTATION.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS A LARGE PROJECT.
I'M JUST GOING TO GIVE A LITTLE
BIT MORE SPACE FOR
COMMISSIONERS WITH ANY FINAL
THOUGHTS.
OK, OH YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT WE WILL GO TO A
ROLL-CALL VOTE.
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
>> YES.
THAT CARRIES OK.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD LUCK.
YEAH I WILL OF COURSE I'LL MISS
UNIVERSITY CAFE I GREW UP ON
THERE BULGOGI IN COLLEGE SO OK
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO TEN.
HEY THIS IS OTHER BUSINESS WE
ARE GOING TO THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
CALENDAR WE'LL GO TO STAFF.
YES THESE ARE A FEW MORE
ADJUSTMENTS TO INTRODUCE SOME
FIVE THIRTY START TIME MEETINGS
AND JUST JUST ONE OF YOUR WHAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN A FOURTH
TUESDAY MEETING TO MAKE THAT A
FIVE THIRTY PM REGULAR MEETING.
SO THIS ADJUSTMENT AFFECTS
ADDITIONAL DATES OF JUNE 3RD
JUNE TWENTY FOURTH AND JULY 1ST
TWO OF THOSE WERE REGULAR
MEETINGS ANYWAY JUNE 3RD IN
JULY 1ST THOSE WOULD MOVE THOSE
EXISTING REGULAR MEETINGS TO A
FIVE THIRTY START TIME PROPOSED
AND FOR THE THE OTHER DATE JUNE
TWENTY FOURTH THAT WOULD
EXCHANGE A CALENDAR HOLD FOR A
COMMITTEE MEETING FOR A REGULAR
SESSION AT FIVE THIRTY AND I
BELIEVE ON THE TWENTY FOURTH
DAY WE WILL HAVE TO FIND A NEW
LOCATION FOR YOU BECAUSE IT
CONFLICTS WITH THE POLICE
OVERSIGHT BOARD WHICH MEETS IN
THIS ROOM POTENTIALLY TBD BUT
THAT IS A POTENTIAL MOTION
WOULD BE TO ADAPT THE CALENDAR
AS PRESENTED IN A PACKET.
>> OK ANY DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS?
JUST A FEW COMMENTS.
UM MAY TWENTY SEVEN TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE IS INCLUDED HERE
BUT I THINK THAT WAS CANCELED
AS OF TODAY SO IT COULD BE
AMENDED SO WE WOULD LIKE THAT
AND THEN I THINK THIS IS
PROBABLY JUST AN ADMINISTRATIVE
THING BUT THERE ARE THREE DATES
ON HERE THAT ARE MOVED FOR
HOLIDAYS BUT OUR CALENDAR
INVITES ARE STILL SHOWING THE
TUESDAY SO MAYBE ONCE WE
APPROVE THIS THOSE WILL GET
UPDATED.
>> THAT'S HOW THAT WORKS.
I WILL WORK WITH ADMINISTRATIVE
STAFF TOMORROW TO ENSURE THAT
HAPPENS.
YOU WANT ME TO TELL YOU WHICH
THREE THEY ARE SEPTEMBER TWENTY
FIFTH, OCTOBER 16TH AND
NOVEMBER 12TH
.
>> SO THOSE DAYS ARE NOT IN
YOUR CALENDAR.
INVITER ARE INCORRECTLY THEY'RE
STILL ON THE TUESDAY INSTEAD
OF THE WEDNESDAY OR THURSDAY
WHERE THEY.
OK SO THIS IS CORRECT THAT THE
CALENDAR INVITE NEEDS TO BE
UPDATED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OK, SO RIGHT NOW THE ONLY
AMENDMENT TO STRIKE MAY TWENTY
SEVEN FROM THIS YES VOTE TO
APPROVE IT.
YES.
SECOND DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY I ANY OPPOSED.
>> ALL RIGHT THAT PASSES SO YOU
QIHOO FIRST AND SECOND THAT
COMMISSIONER APRON'S I SECONDED
IT THANK YOU.
>> YEAH SO MAY TWENTY SEVENTH
IS GONE ON THIS DRAFT CURRENTLY
AND THEN JUNE 3RD AND JUNE
TWENTY FOURTH ARE NOTED AS FIVE
THIRTY START DATES AND JULY 1ST
AND JULY 1ST I HAVE A QUESTION
YEAH COMMISSIONER WHICH SO WE
MET AS THE EXECUTIVE TEAM TO
PROPOSE A RETREAT.
>> HAS THAT BEEN GUTTERSON.
>> I WAS ASKED TO HOLD OFF ON
ADDITIONAL PLANNING FOR THAT
WHILE SOME OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN ACTIVITY BOARD SELF OUT SO
I WILL CHECK BACK IN TO GET
UPDATED DIRECTION ON THAT FROM
MANAGER.
OK, OK.
UM ANY OTHER THOUGHTS COMMENTS
.
>> I THINK WE'RE OK WITH THAT.
SO DO WE JUST JUST SOMETHING IN
MY BRAIN AND I DON'T KNOW IF
THIS IS EXACTLY THE CASE I
DON'T THINK THE CHAIR CAN
SECOND OK IT HAS TO BE S OK OK
ESPECIALLY WHEN AND WHY AND
WOULD YOU DO ANOTHER VOICE VOTE
FOR ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I I
THANK YOU.
OK SO NOW THAT IS FORMALLY PAST
PRESELECTIONS.
NO NO NO YOU'RE FINE.
I APOLOGIZE.
OK ANY OTHER THOUGHTS ON THE
CALENDAR TO REITERATE WE'RE
LOOKING AT JUNE 3RD FOR THOSE
OF YOU WATCHING JUNE 3RD, JUNE
TWENTY FOURTH AND JULY 1ST
THAT'S FIVE START DATES.
>> OK, UM OK.
AND THEN CAN WE JUST DO A VOICE
VOTE ON THIS ONE.
YOU NEED A FORMAL ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY I I I THOUGHT YOU
ALREADY DID OK OK.
>> OH NO I THOUGHT I WAS THAT
WAS ON THE AMENDMENT WITH THE
WAY WE ROLLED IT BACK I
APOLOGIZE FOR ANY CONFUSION OK
SO OK YOU GOING TO DO ONE MORE
TIME.
LET'S DO IT FOR GOOD LUCK OK OK
WE'RE GOING TO GO ON TO NUMBER
ELEVEN WHICH IS THE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP FOR
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WELL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF ON
THE PHONE OR USE THE RIGHT HAND
FEATURE AND ZOOM THE PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING
IDEE NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITIES FOUR IDENTIFIED CALLERS
BY THE USE OF THE PHONE NUMBER
OR BY NAME ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR
AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
IS YOUR TURN TO SPEAK.
PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
>> HI I'M LISA YOUNG AGAIN LIVE
AT 866 3RD STREET AND I JUST
WANT TO THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR
SUPPORT OF THE FARMER'S MARKET
WITH ALL THE CONSTRUCTION
THAT'S HAPPENING AROUND THERE.
AS YOU ALL KNOW, PARKING IS A
PERPETUAL PROBLEM.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
COMMENTS ABOUT COORDINATING
WITH DENHA ON THINKING ABOUT
CREATING SPACE FOR THE VENDORS
IN PARTICULAR TO LOAD AND
UNLOAD.
IT'S ESPECIALLY PROBLEMATIC FOR
THE VENDORS WITH VERY LARGE
TRUCKS THAT ARE UNLOADING ON
DETROIT STREETS.
SO AND MOST OF THEM ARE THERE
BETWEEN SIX AND EIGHT IN THE
MORNING.
SO IT'S A SMALL WINDOW ALTHOUGH
THE CUSTOMERS LIKE TO PARK IN
THAT SPACE TO THE OTHER THING I
JUST LEARNED THE OTHER DAY IS
THAT THE CITY IS DOING SOME
WAYFINDING FROM THE PARKING
STRUCTURE TO THE MARKET WHICH I
THINK IS A GREAT PROJECT.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE AND I'LL TRY
TO GO TO THE MEETING IF IF
THERE'S DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT PLAN ABOUT
WAYFINDING DURING THE
CONSTRUCTION BECAUSE I THINK
IT'S OFTEN CHALLENGING FOR
PEOPLE TO FIGURE OUT WHICH END
OF THE MARKET TO GO IN,
ESPECIALLY WITH THE OFFICE
HAVING COME DOWN.
THE OTHER THING IS I WANT TO
THANK COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE
FOR COMMENTS ABOUT THE MARKET.
WE ARE AT A PLACE WHERE CITY
PARKS IS ABOUT TO START
REVISIONING COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT AND SO I WOULD LIKE
TO SEE THE MARKET REALLY
VIBRANT THIS FALL TO GET A LOT
OF GREAT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
SO THAT WE CAN PLAN
FOR THE
NEXT HUNDRED YEARS OF THE
MARKET.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER PRESIDENT
I WOULD LIKE TO BECAUSE THE SON
OK, DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
CALLERS?
WE DO.
OUR FIRST CALLER IS BRAD.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANNING MISSION.
THANK YOU, BRAD BRIT'S THIRTY
THIRTY LEXINGTON RESIDENT
NANOBOT SINCE NINETEEN NINETY
THREE IN THE SECOND WAR.
>> LET ME FIRST THANK ALL THE
COMMISSIONERS FOR YOUR SERVICES
HARD SERVING VOLUNTEERS AND
THANK THE STAFF AS WELL FOR OUR
VERY GOOD PROFESSIONAL WORK AND
EVERYTHING THAT'S DONE.
>> I I HAVE TWO POINTS I'D LIKE
TO MAKE FIRST WITH REGARD TO
BOTH OF THESE ARE WITH REGARD
TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE WELL WE CAN
SEE THAT THERE'S A LOT DISPUTE
AND CONTROVERSY OVER THE PLAN.
I'D LIKE TO SEE OBJECTIVE DATA
FROM A STATISTIC FULLY VALID
SURVEY DONE TO HELP INFORM THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND COUNCIL
ON HOW BEST TO SERVE THE NEEDS
OF RESIDENTS.
AND RIGHT HERE IN ARBOR WE HAVE
INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH,
A WORLD RENOWNED ORGANIZATION
AND SURVEY RESEARCH.
SHAME ON US IF WE CAN'T APPLY
THAT KIND OF STANDARD TO OUR
CITY DECISION MAKING.
SECOND POINT LET ME ASK YOU TO
CONSIDER YOUR PRIORITIES AS
DENHA FOR DIFFERENT GROUPS OR
RANKS OF PRIORITY NUMBER ONE.
>> THOSE WHO LIVE HERE TODAY
AND ARE CHALLENGED FINANCIALLY
WHETHER BUYING A WEALTH OR
INCOME LIMITATIONS AND ARE AT
THE MARGIN.
LET'S THINK OF THOSE VOTES
FIRST.
NUMBER TWO, THE REST OF US WHO
LIVE HERE TODAY I WILL
GRATEFULLY SAY THAT FINANCIALLY
I'M NOT CHALLENGED.
>> NUMBER THREE, THOSE WOULD BE
INTERESTED IN LIVING HERE BUT
DON'T AT THIS MOMENT.
YES, LET'S THINK ABOUT THEM.
BUT THEY I DON'T MEAN TO BE
SELFISH BUT THEY'RE THE THIRD
PRIORITY.
AND FINALLY AND THIS IS KIND
OF A SEPARATE DIMENSION YOU DO
NEED TO THINK ABOUT THE OWNERS
WHETHER THEY LIVE HERE OR NOT.
YOU NEED TO BE EQUITABLE IN
DEALING WITH THEM.
SO THAT WOULD BE MY REQUEST TO
YOU TO CONSIDER THINGS IN THAT
PRIORITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
THERE ARE TWO MORE CALLERS.
>> MARK SERBO, YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS PLANNING
COMMISSION.
OH THIS IS SCHOOL TWENTY
SEVENTEEN.
FIRSTLY I JUST WANT TO SHARE A
QUICK STORY SECOND HAND FROM A
LOCAL DENTIST PRACTICE HERE ON
THE STREET NEAR DOWNTOWN HERE
LARRY TERRACE.
I GUESS THE PRACTICE WAS DOING
WELL AND SO WE WANTED TO EXTEND
AND HE TRIED TO EXPAND THE
BUILDING THAT HE WAS IN SAID HE
WANTED TO BE NEAR DOWNTOWN, BE
ABLE TO HAVE CUSTOMERS WALKING
AND USING THE BUS TO GET TO HIS
PRACTICE.
BUT BECAUSE HIS BUILDING WAS IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE AND LIMITED
BY HISTORIC DISTRICT
REQUIREMENTS, HE WASN'T ABLE TO
DO SO.
SO HE MOVED HIS BUSINESS TO A
NEW BUILDING OFF OF LIBERTY
OUTSIDE OF THE HIGHWAY AND
ACTUALLY WANTED TO ADD MORE
PARKING AT THAT LOCATION AND
HAD TO APPLY FOR A VARIANCE
BECAUSE THEY'RE THE CLOSEST
STAFF IS OVER HALF A MILE AWAY.
THERE ARE NO SIDEWALKS.
THEY GO TO THAT AREA.
THERE IS A BIKE LANE THAT I
USED TO BIKE ON EVERY SINGLE
DAY AND IT IS TERRIFYING AND
THAT AND CERTAINLY SO HERE IS
ANOTHER BUSINESS OWNER WOULD
LIKE TO BE IN DOWNTOWN, HAVE A
SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS WAS FORCED
OUT TO A PLACE THAT IS NOT
ACCESSIBLE AND I'M REALLY
LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT
ENCOURAGES AND EVENTUALLY
ALLOWS FOR ZONING THAT ALLOWS
FOR MORE NEIGHBORHOOD
BUSINESSES MORE CONNECTION
BETWEEN WHERE PEOPLE LIVE AND
WHERE PEOPLE NEED TO GO ON A
DAILY BASIS.
>> YES.
THANK YOU.
THANK OUR FINAL HENDRY'S IS
LISA JAVINS.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANNING COMMISSION.
HI.
I WOULD STILL LIKE MY QUESTION
ANSWERED FROM THE BEGINNING
OF THE MEETING REGARDING
MAILERS FOR SOME REASON THE
COMMISSIONER DID NOT GET THE
OTHER COMMISSIONERS A CHANCE TO
RESPOND AFTER PUBLIC COMMENT
ENDED AT THE BEGINNING WHICH
SOMETIMES IS DONE.
>> I KNOW THE CITY THAT HAS HAS
A LIST OF EVERY RESIDENTIAL
DWELLING UNIT IN THE CITY
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THEY ARE
OCCUPIED BY OWNERS OR RENTERS.
IT HAS THE ABILITY TO REACH ALL
RESIDENT ADDRESSES.
SO I'LL JUST ASK AGAIN MAYBE IF
YOU DON'T HAVE THIS INFORMATION
NOW YOU COULD ANSWER IT AT A
FUTURE MEETING.
WAS IT EVER CONSIDERED IN
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WHEN THE
PUBLIC COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
PROCESS BEGAN AND IF IT WAS
CONSIDERED BY WAS NOTHING SAID
AND IF A MAILING WAS NEVER EVEN
CONSIDERED THEN WHY NOT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS IN
ADDITIONAL HAND RAISED AND THAT
IS FOR ADAM JUST GIVING YOU
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HEY ADAM JUST GIVE A CHAIR
FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS VEGAS DRIVE
AGAIN.
I DID FIND IT A LITTLE BIT
CONCERNING THAT WITH THE
POSTCARDS THAT WERE SENT OUT
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT THEY
RECENTLY TALKED ABOUT SOMETHING
TWELVE OR THIRTEEN PERCENT
OF THEM WERE ACTUALLY RETURN TO
SENDER.
I PRESUME THAT'S THAT'S AN AREA
THAT'S PRETTY HEAVY IN RENTERS.
SO I I REALLY THINK THAT IF
WE'RE GOING TO BE USING MAILERS
AS KIND OF A PRIMARY MEANS
OF CONTACTING PEOPLE THAT WE
NEED TO FIGURE OUT A WAY THAT
WE CAN EQUITABLE ENGAGE RENTERS
ESPECIALLY GIVEN THAT RENTERS
ARE MORE THAN HALF OF THE
RESIDENTS WITHIN ANN ARBOR AND
I THINK THAT THEIR VOICE IS
JUST AS IMPORTANT AS OWNER
OCCUPIED PROPERTIES WITHIN ANN
ARBOR AND CERTAINLY MORE
IMPORTANT THAN PROPERTY OWNERS
WHO LIVE OUTSIDE OF THE CITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
THAT APPEARS TO BE OUR FINAL
FINAL CALLER THIS EVENING?
OK, GIVE IT JUST
OK WITH THAT
WE ARE GOING TO CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA ITEM TWELVE WHICH IS
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS DO
WE HAVE ANY.
>> YES COMMISSIONER.
WHY DO YOU THINK COMMISSIONER
EVANS WOULD ANSWER THE SAME
QUESTION OR NO NO.
>> SO WE WE WANTED TO ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION, MR. EVANS, ABOUT
THE POSTCARDS.
SO I WAS ON THE SUBCOMMITTEE
FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BUT
NOT INITIALLY ON THE ONE THAT
INTERFACED WITH THE PUBLIC AND
I DON'T BELIEVE WE HAD ANY
DISCUSSION ABOUT UTILIZING
POSTCARDS FOR NOTIFICATION.
I WAS TRYING TO FIND THE
INTERFACE STUDIOS' RFP RESPONSE
WHICH BROKE DOWN WHAT THEIR
DELIVERABLES WERE AND I DON'T
RECALL SEEING POSTCARDS IN
THERE.
I DON'T KNOW STAFF HAVE ANY
MORE DETAILS ON THAT SPECIFIC
QUESTION THAT YOU CAN OUT THERE
TONIGHT MAKE SURE THEY'RE FROM
WHAT I KNOW, AS YOU KNOW, I'M
NOT THE PRIMARY POINT
OF CONTACT FOR THIS BUT I HAVE
BEEN ADJACENT AS I'VE OF COURSE
ALL THE OTHER STAFF TO THIS
PROCESS.
THERE WERE TWO POSTCARD ITEMS
RAISED.
ONE WAS A RECENT MAILER THAT
WAS SENT TO FOLKS HOMES AND I
CAN REPORT THAT THAT WAS NOT
FROM THE CITY ENTRY.
I'M NOT AWARE OF WHAT THAT
MAILER IS OR WHO SENT THAT SO I
THINK EARLY THREE CALLERS WHO
MENTIONED THAT BUT I'M NOT SURE
WHO SENT IT OR WHAT IT WHAT
INFORMATION IT'S THE CITY
COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
HAVE MONEY IN THE BUDGET TO
SEND OUT A COMMUNICATION TO
RESIDENTS AND THE I THANK THE
ONES FOR WARD FOUR.
MINE JUST CAME THIS WEEK.
OK, SO IT HAS BOTH MY CITY
COUNCIL REPS PLUS THE MAYOR AND
EVERYTHING THEY'VE DONE IN THE
LAST SEVERAL WEEKS.
SO I THINK WHAT THEY'RE DOING
IF I'M UNDERSTANDING CALLER
CORRECTLY IS THEY'RE SAYING
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME I'VE
EVER GOTTEN THIS.
>> IT'S BECAUSE THEY JUST ADDED
IT TO THE BUDGET AND IF THEY'RE
ABLE TO SEND THIS, WHY WEREN'T
THEY ALSO ABLE TO SEND OUT THE
PLAN?
BUT YOU CAN'T ANSWER THAT
QUESTION AND I CAN'T ANSWER
THAT QUESTION BUT I DON'T THINK
IN THE CURRENT PLAN
CONVERSATION THERE WAS A
DELIVERABLE FROM THE CONSULTANT
FOR US TO DO A MAIL OR A
RECOMMENDATION FOR THAT IF I
CAN'T SPEAK TO THE TO WHETHER
OR NOT IT WAS DISCUSSED TO BE
INCLUDED IN THEIR SCOPE.
BUT I KNOW THAT MAILERS ARE
SOMETHING THAT OF COURSE WE
CONSIDER BECAUSE IT'S AN
OBVIOUS WAY TO REACH PEOPLE.
IT COSTS TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS AND THERE IS A TRADE
OFF THERE.
DO YOU WANT TO USE THAT BUDGET
MONEY FOR YOUR CONSULTANT TO DO
ANALYSIS OR OTHER TYPES
OF PUBLIC OUTREACH OR STAFF
PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HELP TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS AND CREATE
ENGAGING BOARDS WITH USEFUL
INFORMATION OR DO YOU WANT TO
SEND
SOMETHING THAT MAY BE
RETURNED TO SENDER OR THROWN IN
THE RECYCLING SO SOMETIMES
CITIES WILL BUNDLE THESE WITH
THINGS LIKE TAX BILLS OR
UTILITY BILLS TO GET SOME TYPE
OF COST SAVINGS THAT REQUIRES A
PRETTY INTENSE AMOUNT
OF COORDINATION AND ADVANCE.
I I'M SURE MANAGER LEONARD
KNOWS WHETHER THAT WAS
CONSIDERED AND WHY IT WAS NOT
ULTIMATELY DONE BUT THAT'S
GENERALLY WHERE YOU CAN GET
SOME COST SAVINGS WITH THAT
TYPE OF THING.
>> UM, BUT I'M SURE IT WAS A
TRADE OFF, UH, DISCUSSION AND I
THINK WITH THE CHAIR'S
PERMISSION JUST A QUICK
COMMENT.
SO I DID PARTICIPATE IN SOME
OF THE EARLY ENGAGEMENT.
I ALSO LIKE DUILIO THAT SOME
OF THE FAIRS IN DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR WITH BOARDS AND TRYING TO
GO TO WHERE PEOPLE WERE ALREADY
BUT BRINGING SORT OF A PLANNING
AND A BOX KIND OF PRESENTATION
SO THAT IT DIDN'T DISRUPT SORT
OF PEOPLE'S EXPECTATION FOR
WHERE THIS INFORMATION WOULD
BE.
AND I KNOW WE SPENT I SPENT AT
LEAST AN HOUR THERE AND I THINK
YOU ALL WERE THERE FOR SEVERAL
HOURS ANSWERING QUESTIONS AND
TALKING TO PEOPLE.
I'M SURE THERE WERE EASILY TWO
TO FIVE THOUSAND PEOPLE WHO
PASSED BY THAT SPACE.
THAT WAS JUST ONE EVENT THAT
WAS DONE BEFORE WE EVEN GOT
ENGAGED WITH THE CONSULTANT ON
THIS PROCESS.
>> SO I DID FIND THE RFP.
IT'S ON PAGE FORTY THREE
SECTION ONE POINT SEVEN
MARKETING MATERIALS AND UPDATES
AND JUST GOES THROUGH A LITANY
OF POTENTIAL ITEMS THAT THE
CONSULTANTS RECOMMENDED TO THE
CITY FOR HOW WE SHOULD
COMMUNICATE.
SO HOPEFULLY THAT THAT ANSWERS
THAT QUESTION NOW MY TIME
THANKS COMMISSIONER RAYBANS AS
AN ASIDE I GET MY WATER BILL
DIGITALLY AS I IMAGINE MANY
PEOPLE DO SO I DON'T KNOW HOW
VIABLE THAT OPTION THAT IS HERE
IN ANN ARBOR UM COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS SINCE
COMMISSIONER MILLS ASKED WHY
WERE WE LOOKING AT THIS TWO
UNIT HOUSING PROJECT?
CAN WE JUST MAKE IT NOTE
SOMEWHERE THAT WE SHOULD UPDATE
THIS TABLE FIVE POINT TWO NINE
DASH ONE WHICH IS THE REQUIRED
APPROVALS FOR DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITIES BY LAND USE WHERE
FOR SOME REASON WE DO HAVE
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
REQUIRED FOR A RESIDENTIAL
DWELLING ONE TO FOUR UNITS IN A
MIXED USE ZONE WHICH I THINK WE
SHOULD RE RE RE VISIT.
THANKS.
WE WILL BE DOING AN ANNUAL
UPDATE OF YOUR CPK WORK PROGRAM
AND I THINK THAT MAY BE A GOOD
OPPORTUNITY TO INTRODUCE
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> THANKS.
>> I WILL THROW IN THE PREMIUM
FOR US TO I WOULD I WOULD LIKE
AN ASSESSMENT JUST BACK OFF
THAT THEN AGAIN THOSE NUMBERS
ARE EXTREMELY PRELIMINARY JUST
BASED ON WHAT I KNOW.
>> BUT THAT A PRETTY CLEAR
PATTERN RIGHT OF UTILIZATION
SPECIFICALLY ON SUSTAINABILITY
AND WE HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
HOW CAN WE BE MORE CLEAR ABOUT
WHAT WE WE CONSIDER TO BE
SUSTAINABLE IS A PROPORTIONAL
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
ENSURE PROPORTIONALITY.
>> SO OK, TO OUR CURRENT PLAN I
HOPE WOULD BE TO BRING THIS TO
YOUR SIX TEN WORKING SESSION
FOR DISCUSSION.
THERE ARE ALSO SOME OTHER ITEMS
THAT ARE SLATED FOR THAT AGENDA
.
FOR EXAMPLE, A PRESENTATION BY
SUSANNE FLOWERS FROM OUR
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION ON AN
UPDATE TWO TIERED CORRIDORS SO
WE'LL SEE WHAT WE CAN PUT INTO
THAT AGENDA AND THEN IT WOULD
COME TO A SUBSEQUENT REGULAR
SESSION.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS?
YES, MR. MILLS, BECAUSE WE'RE
ADDING TO THE LIST OF THINGS
THAT WE COULD CONSIDER NORC
WORLD I CAN'T REMEMBER I KNOW
WE'VE DISCUSSED IN THE LAST SIX
MONTHS ISH BICYCLE PARKING
REQUIREMENTS AND KIND OF SPLIT
SPACES THAT THAT'S STILL
PENDING.
RIGHT.
WE HAVEN'T FINALIZED IT.
IS THAT RIGHT?
I CAN GIVE A BRIEF OR THE
UPDATE SPECIFICALLY BY PARKING
STAFF HAVE BEEN WORKING WORKING
ON THEM.
WE ACTUALLY BELIEVE WE HAVE A
STAFF MEETING TOMORROW TO TALK
ABOUT THE LATEST DRAFT BUT WE
HAVE BEEN DELIBERATELY SLOW NOT
WANTING TO OVERWHELM ANY RC
MEMBERS WHO ARE ALSO WORKING ON
THE COMP PLAN WHICH ALL OF THEM
.
SO WE HAD PLANNED ON COMING TO
YOU IN YOUR JULY?
UM, WELL, WE HAD PLANNED ASKING
IF THE NRC WANTED TO MEET IN
JULY OR IF THEY WANTED A NIGHT
OFF AND IF YOU WANT TO MEET IN
JULY WE WILL WE HAVE A DRAFT.
IT WAS MORE JUST SO THAT I
DIDN'T FORGET THAT WE HAD
FINALIZED SOMETHING SINCE IT IS
STILL PENDING IF WE CAN JUST
PUT A NOTE REMEMBER REMEMBERING
THAT FIRST PROPOSAL THE DETROIT
ONE THAT WE DEALT WITH TONIGHT
AND KIND OF GO INTO IT IS A
SIMILAR LIKE LOCATION A BIKE
ROOM AS SOME OTHER THINGS THAT
WE'VE SEEN AND THIS IS JUST
ANOTHER GOOD EXAMPLE I THI
.
THANK YOU.
GOT IT.
GO.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THERE'S ONLY ONE ITEM LEFT ON
THE AGENDA WHICH IS A GERMAN.
DO I HAVE A MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WISCH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I.
>> WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU.
>> IT'S EARLY